<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Preface</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="preface">
      <h1>Preface</h1>

      <p>
        Many reputed intellectuals including scientists have recorded that there
        has been an elevation in human consciousness in recent times. Whether it
        is to do with the Age of Aquarius as rock groups foresaw or the
        metaphorical end of the world as the Mayans predicted is not the
        question here.
      </p>

      <p>
        The question is, how do we define consciousness? As societal beings who
        have been guided all our lives by moral and legal commandments, our
        beacon of behavior has always been conscience. But conscience is not
        consciousness.
      </p>

      <p>
        Consciousness is the awareness that there is something more to our life
        than the material pleasures that we seek. Consciousness is that tension
        within us that tells us there is something higher than what we see. It
        is the beacon of inner awareness that guides us to a state of being
        where we realize that we are more than what we think we are.
      </p>

      <p>
        Human beings are far more than mere bio machines. This is why even the
        most powerful computer would never be able to replace the human. It can
        replace the mind and the body but not the energy of the human being. It
        might be a fact that we ascended from animals. But it is the truth that
        we can go further.
      </p>

      <p>
        From time immemorial wise men of all cultures have pondered deep into
        this simple yet intangible issue of what lies within us. “Who am I” has
        been the refrain of many sages. Many did find the answer. Their answers
        were experiential. The scriptures of all great religions are the
        expressions of these wise masters to convey their experience to us. When
        they live, the masters themselves are the experience that we can share.
      </p>

      <p>Paramahamsa Nithyananda is such an experience.</p>

      <p>
        This book is the first volume of the essence of the wisdom of
        Nithyananda that has so far been expressed. Nithyananda has spoken in a
        number of structured programs. He has commented on great scriptures like
        the Bhagavad Gita and spoken to large public and small private groups
        over the last five years. This book is an essence of these teachings.
      </p>

      <p>
        This book takes you through an understanding of why we behave the way we
        do and explains how we can change the way we act so that we are in
        synchronicity with the energy of the cosmos. Meditation techniques
        provided in this book help you to experience this synchronicity.
      </p>

      <p>
        The understanding and the experience that we are one with the energy
        outside us expands our consciousness. We realize that we are one with
        every other individual, however different the individual may be in
        culture, color, language, religion or tribe. We realize that we are all
        waves in the same cosmic ocean.
      </p>

      <p>
        This experience is Living Enlightenment. This experience is Nithyananda.
      </p>

      <p>
        While there is some order in the way the chapters are structured, you
        may move back and forth in any order to read the subject of your choice.
        All chapters are interconnected with the common thread of Living
        Enlightenment. Yet, each one is an individual pathway to the experience
        and not a sequential step. In this book, references of non-English words
        have been explained as footnotes on the first three occurrences of the
        word, and explained in the glossary as well.
      </p>

      <p>
        As you go deeper into the experience and feel the need to interact with
        others who experience a similar need, visit
        <a href="https://kailaasa.org">https://kailaasa.org</a>. You can also
        join one of the many hundred Worldwide Spiritual Embassies around the
        world and interact with others who are already on this path.
      </p>

      <p>
        This book is an amazing journey into Existential Truths and a gift from
        an enlightened master of this millennium.
      </p>

      <p>-Nithyananda Publishers</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
