<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Love cannot be created</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Love cannot be created</h1>

      <p>
        Love can never be made to happen with just our logical decision. Our
        mental setup itself should be created in such a way that we become love
        and our actions speak love. Our logic should start radiating a love that
        is beyond logic! When real love happens in us, we will not even be aware
        that we are loving. Only others will be aware that we are radiating
        love.
      </p>

      <p>
        When real love happens, we overflow with so much energy that we will
        have the courage to share whatever we have with others. We get
        tremendous confidence because we know it has happened in us! Whether it
        is energy, time, talent or pleasure, only when we are overflowing can we
        really share it. Similarly, love happens only naturally, never through
        compulsion. If we try to create love, it will be like forcing open the
        petals of a flower to make it bloom. Can it be called flowering? No.
        Love is a flower that blossoms deep within your being and sends out a
        sweet fragrance that we share with others.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
