<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Ego disconnects - Love connects</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Ego disconnects - Love connects</h1>

      <p>
        If the cosmos is a grand ocean, we are all part of it. We are one with
        the ocean, not individual drops in the ocean. When we think of ourselves
        as individual drops, we feel separate in our boundary and in our
        feelings. This is what is called ego. We become driven by feelings of
        “I” and “mine”. As long as this separation remains, we never experience
        the energy of the ocean that is love, we can never experience that
        causeless and surging love.
      </p>

      <p>
        As long as we remain a drop in the ocean, we say ’no’ to life. We
        neither love nor trust. We don’t feel blissful either because bliss is
        possible only for those who know how to love and trust. It happens only
        to those who know how to feel part of the ocean. Bliss is possible only
        when our heart says “yes”, when the “no” completely disappears from our
        being. “No” is darkness, “yes” is light. “No” is ego, “yes” is
        egolessness.
      </p>

      <p>
        “No” is the way of the unconscious person. “Yes” is the way of the
        awakened one. All the conflict, all the suffering in our life is because
        of our saying “no”. “No” is a fight, a war with Existence. “Yes” is
        love, peace with Existence. “Yes” is deep accord with the totality of
        who we are - the ocean. Bliss is another name for that accord, that
        harmony.
      </p>

      <p>
        The way to be in bliss is to dissolve into the ocean, not to be a drop
        but to merge with the ocean. To be a drop is to be with ego. The ego is
        the root of all misery. When the ego is absent, bliss reaches us from
        every nook and corner of the ocean of existence, as if it were just
        waiting for the ego to disappear.
      </p>

      <p>
        Ego is a closed state of consciousness. All the windows and doors are
        closed. Life itself becomes insulated and encapsulated. Our ego
        surrounds us like a capsule. Our ego is like a sealed capsule; there is
        not even a small gap to allow anything to enter. It closes itself due to
        fear and shrinks into itself. That is how we create misery for
        ourselves.
      </p>

      <p>
        Love is being in the flow with Existence, to be totally with it. Ego is
        like frozen ice. Love is like liquid water. Only when we are liquid do
        we become part of the ocean. Then we don’t have any private goal or
        destination. Each moment is blissful, incredibly ecstatic, just going
        with the plan of the cosmos.
      </p>

      <p>
        The mind is part of the ego. It knows how to close, but it does not know
        how to open. To love means to open up, to surrender. It means opening up
        to Existence, to the flowers, to the bees and to the stars. How do we
        open to this beautiful music that fills the whole of Existence? How do
        we open up to this celebration that goes on and on — flowers dancing in
        the wind, trees enjoying the wind and the stars, always in a state of
        bliss? Except for man, everything else seems to be in harmony.
      </p>

      <p>
        Man falls out of harmony because he has what is called “consciousness”
        which is not present in other living creatures.
      </p>

      <p>
        Consciousness can do two things. It can create ego or it can create
        egolessness. If it creates ego, we live in hell. If it creates
        egolessness, we live in paradise. The whole world is in paradise without
        knowing it. When man enters paradise, he enters knowing it fully. That
        is the grandeur and beauty of man. That is the danger as well, because
        it is easier to fall into the trap of the ego and not enter into
        paradise than to enter paradise knowingly.
      </p>

      <p>
        The problem is that we have forgotten who we are and for what we were
        created. We are emperors of love, but we dream that we are beggars. We
        have the whole kingdom of Existence within our being and yet we continue
        to beg for mundane things. We keep collecting mundane things not knowing
        that we have infinite, inexhaustible treasures within our being. We are
        oceans, yet we are thirsty because we have become disconnected from our
        own selves. But no matter how disconnected we are, no matter how much we
        have forgotten and how long we have forgotten, it can be remembered in a
        single moment and we can become connected immediately.
      </p>

      <p>Love is the connector.</p>

      <p>
        Bliss arises from love. Love is the poetry that connects you back to
        Existence. Love is the sword that slays the ego and merges you with the
        ocean. When the heart is full of love, your whole life is transformed
        from prose to poetry, from noise to music and from discord to harmony.
      </p>

      <p>
        It is such sheer joy to simply exist. Just “to be” is enough. But we
        need to be sensitive to feel the joy of being. We need to grow feelers.
        The feelers are what we call love. Love feels the joy of just being.
        When you grow the feelers of love, life is no longer made of independent
        thoughts but becomes a continuous feeling. Then the ego starts to
        dissolve. Once we have moved from thinking to feeling, there is only one
        more step and that is from feeling to being. That is very simple.
      </p>

      <p>
        The first step is difficult, to move from thinking to feeling. The ego
        has trained the mind to think so much, that’s why. The second step comes
        almost automatically. There’s nothing we need to do for it to happen.
        From feeling to being, the distance is nothing at all. It can happen at
        any moment. The poet can become the mystic at any moment. He is almost
        there. The real problem is how to get out of our thinking and get more
        and more into feeling.
      </p>

      <p>
        Just follow the heart. Just love more, that’s all! Feel more. Enjoy more
        so that you can feed your heart. Watch the sunrise, sunset, clouds,
        rainbows, birds, flowers, animals, rocks, and people, and watch them
        with awareness. Look into their eyes. Existence is so multidimensional.
        Look into every dimension like a poet. Praise it. Feel it. Be ecstatic!
        Expand your consciousness and experience every single detail of
        Existence with love. Slowly, the ego will lose its hold and disappear.
      </p>

      <p>
        The only barrier to love is fear. When things start happening, we become
        fearful because with love we enter into a merger. This threatens the
        very basis of our ego. Ego is separateness while love is a merger. The
        fear we feel is nothing but the fear of the dissolving ego. Let the fear
        be there. It will hang around for a while. If we simply ignore it, the
        ego will leave us. It is a great day when fear of losing the ego leaves
        us. From then on growth becomes simple, easy and spontaneous. Then
        <em>we</em> are not, only <em>love</em> is.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
