<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Love heals five types of restlessness</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Love heals five types of restlessness</h1>

      <p>
        The word “love” is loaded with so many different meanings,
        interpretations and commentaries. First, let us leave out the idea of
        selfless and spiritual love. Let us first consider the normal, simple
        love with all its possessiveness, jealousy and all the side effects it
        causes! Even that love can do a lot of good for the body and mind. Later
        we will discuss selfless, spiritual love or mature love.
      </p>

      <p>
        The other day I was reading an article in a magazine. The title was,
        “Live Forever”. I was amazed to read it. It gave eleven techniques to
        extend your life by at least twenty years and it was supported by
        statistics and survey reports. All the eleven techniques were related to
        love. It said that even caring for a pet animal releases a hormone in us
        that allows us to live at ease with our body. If caring for our pet
        animals does so much, surely caring for the husband or for the wife will
        do a lot more!
      </p>

      <p>
        The article also spoke of how people die early if they are single or
        widowers and how life is extended with love. It also spoke of how
        chances of getting cancer or depression are less when you have love in
        your life. Even what we call ordinary love, simple infatuation, can do
        miracles for our body and mind. It can give us a deep feeling of healing
        and wellbeing.
      </p>

      <p>
        According to Tantra<sup id="love-heals-five-types-of-restlessness-ref1"
          ><a href="#love-heals-five-types-of-restlessness-1">1</a></sup
        >, five types of restlessness happen in a person and all of these can be
        healed by ordinary love, by the simple caring for one another. Once
        again, I am not speaking of spiritual love or devotion or selfless love.
        That comes later.
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A school boy fell in love with a girl from his own grade.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One day he was kidnapped by an extremist group and sent to a camp across
        the border for training. A few months later he came back to his homeland
        to spread terror.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        He entered his village to find that the family of his beloved was killed
        by terrorists.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        He met the girl and they started talking. She told him how much she
        hated what was happening and begged him to stop what he was doing. She
        told him she would marry him only if he surrendered to the authorities.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The boy immediately surrendered and joined the army fighting the
        insurgency while carrying a photograph of the girl in his pocket all the
        time.
      </p>

      <p>
        Let us first talk of simple, practical love that you share with someone
        for some reason, either because the person will support you socially or
        support you when you face some difficulty or just because you want to
        maintain a good relationship with that person. For any of these reasons
        you may show love. Even this type of love heals you from the following
        five kinds of restlessness.
      </p>

      <p>
        The first kind of restlessness happens due to your circumstances.
        Sometimes, in a particular place or situation you feel restless. If you
        move from that place or situation, you feel more settled. Even under
        uncomfortable circumstances, if you just show a gesture of love to
        someone, or if someone shows a gesture of love to you, things can become
        instantly better for you! It can heal you.
      </p>

      <p>
        The second kind of restlessness is physical. Physical restlessness is
        nothing but a constant tension in your body for no particular reason. It
        is said that all such tension can be released when you express love to
        somebody. You may ask,“How can love take away physical restlessness?”
        You can see for example, a mother who has a child to look after will
        feel continuously rejuvenated in spite of the child driving her crazy!
        Because of the love element, she will cope with the tension. Otherwise,
        taking care of children is not an easy job!
      </p>

      <p>
        The rejuvenation happens because of the love and care the mother feels
        for the child. Any tension or restlessness in the body disappears when
        you care for somebody, when you smile at somebody, when you express love
        in your body language, even if it is just once.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you express yourself through your head, it is called intelligence.
        When you express yourself through your heart, it is felt as love. When
        you express yourself through your being, it is experienced as energy.
        When you relax into your being without expressing, it is bliss! Each one
        is the same energy but expressed in four different ways.
      </p>

      <p>
        So whenever you express love, you express energy also. Love is
        concentrated, caring energy. So naturally, whenever you express love you
        become a channel for healing energy. When you are a channel for energy,
        you not only heal others but heal yourself as well.
      </p>

      <p>
        The third form of restlessness is mental. Any mental restlessness can be
        healed by love. Research indicates that when you care for pets or play
        with children, you reduce the possibility of heart attacks and also
        reduce the risk of fatal diseases!
      </p>

      <p>
        The fourth form of restlessness is emotional. Mental restlessness is
        different from emotional restlessness. Mental restlessness is purely
        intellectual and can be controlled easily. But emotional restlessness
        cannot be controlled by just a few words of consolation. It can be
        healed only when you express love. When you start radiating love, it
        floods your being with energy. When your being is opened to such higher
        energies, it heals the emotional restlessness.
      </p>

      <p>
        Ultimately, we come to spiritual restlessness. There are so many people
        who can sit with others, who can sit with the television, who can sit
        with newspapers, but who can’t sit with themselves. This is what is
        called spiritual restlessness. Spiritual restlessness means that you
        cannot sit with yourself. You can give appointments to everybody else
        but not to yourself!
      </p>

      <p>
        Your love for the teacher or the master can heal your spiritual
        restlessness. Many people come and tell me, “Swamiji, just sitting in
        your presence puts us in a calm state but when we go back home, we are
        not able to remain in that calmness. Why is it so?” When you are in the
        presence of an enlightened person, you start relating, you start
        expressing your love towards him automatically. This heals your
        spiritual restlessness.
      </p>

      <p>
        If you observe when I speak, I often give long gaps between words. The
        gaps are actually used to bring down your spiritual restlessness. When
        you sit in front of the television, you are able to sit so comfortably
        because information is just pushed into your being without a break. You
        aren’t given a chance to experience your restlessness. So while your
        restlessness is actually supported and increased, you don’t experience
        it and you feel very comfortable.
      </p>

      <p>
        But here, if you have the patience to sit and listen to these words with
        the gaps, your spiritual restlessness will come down and the tendency of
        your mind to ask for the next thought will also come down. You
        automatically become receptive and these words will not only touch your
        head, but they will directly touch your heart as well. If you are
        totally relaxed and at ease with yourself without too many thoughts,
        your being will open, taking in everything and be healed.
      </p>

      <p>
        If your mind is calm, just listening is enough. There is no need to even
        meditate separately later. The very listening itself can create the
        experience in you. If your listening is not proper, then it is difficult
        for the experience to happen. J. Krishnamurti<sup
          id="love-heals-five-types-of-restlessness-ref2"
          ><a href="#love-heals-five-types-of-restlessness-2">2</a></sup
        >, the famous philosopher says, “Listening is god.” Deep and total
        listening without restlessness is divine. That itself is god. If you
        look deeply into your being, the very presence of the master that causes
        love to happen in you heals the spiritual restlessness.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="love-heals-five-types-of-restlessness-1">
            Tantra - Ancient vedic tradition of achieving enlightenment through
            spiritual techniques or practices, meditations and ritual worship.
            <a href="#love-heals-five-types-of-restlessness-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="love-heals-five-types-of-restlessness-2">
            J. Krishnamurti - Renowned Indian philosopher.
            <a href="#love-heals-five-types-of-restlessness-ref2">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
