<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Love brings great courage</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Love brings great courage</h1>

      <p>
        A beautiful incident happened in the life of Ramanuja<sup
          id="love-brings-great-courage-ref1"
          ><a href="#love-brings-great-courage-1">1</a></sup
        >. If you study the life of Ramanuja, you will see how he used every
        step of his life to move towards enlightenment.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        When his teacher initiated Ramanuja, he gave him a special chant. The
        teacher told him not to pass on the chant to anybody and that if he did
        so, he would go to hell. Ramanuja asked him what would happen to the
        others with whom he might share it. The teacher said that they would be
        led to salvation.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        What would we have done? Naturally we would have kept quiet, thinking,
        “Why unnecessarily go to hell?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Ramanuja immediately stood on a platform in a temple and called out to
        the whole village. He loudly pronounced the chant given by his teacher
        and told the people, “Let you all go to heaven! I am not bothered about
        me going to hell. Let you all reach heaven!”
      </p>

      <p>
        When you are deeply in love, you feel as if your whole being is open and
        you are ready to go to any extreme for the sake of anybody. You are
        ready to go to any boundary, as there is nothing to protect within your
        being. Your being is totally open. You don’t feel insecure when you are
        wild with love. That is why people who are in love always do risky
        things. They take the risk because they feel they have nothing to lose.
        There is no insecurity about anything. They feel so expansive. Love
        gives tremendous courage and energy. It opens you up. It makes you
        finally available to yourself. As of now, you are not available to
        yourself. Love can make you available to yourself.
      </p>

      <p>
        When the teacher saw what Ramanuja did, he admitted that he learned a
        lesson from his disciple and declared that Ramanuja had reached greater
        heights than him. He told Ramanuja, “You are in a different space now.”
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="love-brings-great-courage-1">
            Ramanuja - Founder of the Vishishtadvaita or modified duality
            principle. Along with Adi Shankara and Madhva, considered to be one
            of the three great teachers of Hindu philosophy.
            <a href="#love-brings-great-courage-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
