<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Be open - not philosophizing</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Be open - not philosophizing</h1>

      <p>
        If you observe, you will have a very definite mental setup towards the
        people you live with everyday. You will practically know all the
        dialogues that might happen between you and them. You will know exactly
        that if you start the conversation in a particular way, in just what way
        the other person will respond! If you start the dialogue in another way,
        you will know exactly how the other person’s response will change. You
        have a virtual script of all the possible everyday dialogues in your
        head.
      </p>

      <p>
        Only if someone comes up with a new dialogue or behavior are you a
        little shaken or disturbed, and you don’t know how to answer or react.
        Those are the only few minutes you start wondering about how to respond.
        Otherwise, you know the dialogue for the whole day. You know how it
        should start, when it will take a turn and how it will end. It is a dead
        dialogue. There is no life in it.
      </p>

      <p>
        The problem is that we have all practically become philosophers. We
        don’t understand that life is not philosophy. It is spontaneous flowing
        energy. It is new every moment. Philosophy is all about repeating the
        same old things in different ways, that’s all. There’s nothing fresh in
        it. Life is fresh every moment. Philosophy robs life of the freshness.
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Ten philosophers were imprisoned in a country. They were kept together
        in one cell. They decided that somehow they should escape from the
        prison. They sat and made a big plan. They got the mold of the prison
        door key and made a duplicate key.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Finally, they chose the date of escape. The whole plan was clearly laid
        out. They decided that on the particular night, two of them will open
        the prison door with the duplicate key and signal to the others. The
        others would escape and these two would follow after locking the door
        behind them.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The day of escape dawned and two of them went to open the door. The rest
        of them waited for the signal. They waited and waited but never got any
        signal. Three hours passed. Suddenly the two who had gone to open the
        door came back and said, “We have to drop our plan to escape. It can’t
        happen today. We will have to do it some other day. We will have to
        reschedule our escape.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">The others asked, “Why, what happened?”</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        They replied, “What to do? The foolish guards forgot to lock the prison
        door!”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The other nine philosophers were so disappointed that they decided to
        stay in the prison. They were not able to escape.
      </p>

      <p>
        Those who philosophize cannot think of anything new! It has to be the
        same old mental setup. If there is some change or some new situation,
        they cannot think creatively to deal with it, because they are not open.
        They are like a closed circuit.
      </p>

      <p>
        We have also become like philosophers when dealing with our lives. We
        are stuck in patterns of the past. We are never in the moment. If
        anything new happens, we are at a loss.
      </p>

      <p>
        The person who experiences the “ever living presence” experiences life
        in its freshness. He is also the one who is open and available. He
        constantly experiences the oneness with everything around him.
        Understand, being open means respecting every thing as equal to you. It
        means considering each other as equal and being open to change.
        “Available” means that you are clear that the source of everything in
        this universe is Existence and that you are available to it every
        moment. That is the meaning of being available. It is recognizing the
        profundity of Existence of which all things are part. If you are open
        and available, you are no more a philosopher. You are ready to open up
        to life with love.
      </p>

      <p>
        With philosophy, you have fixed ideas, and you become very assertive.
        When you are too assertive, you can’t love. Assertion is an
        aggressiveness that does not allow love to come in. When you are too
        sure and filled with preconceived ideas, then where is the space for
        love to enter? Love needs beautiful space in order to blossom.
      </p>

      <p>
        With philosophy, there is no room for love to settle in its existential
        state. If you really want to experience the taste of nectar, can you
        experience it through just a set of ideas about it? No! You need to
        taste the nectar yourself, give it some space, allow it to fill you and
        settle in its existential state. Only then you will know its taste. In
        the same way, to experience love, just a few ideas alone will not help.
        You need to allow it to grow in its existential state in your inner
        space. Then you will know it. Allow it to happen in your heart, not in
        the head. Decide to be with the heart. Then it will grow and happen.
      </p>

      <p>
        What was once a failure within the head can become a success within the
        heart! Love is really a success of the heart that every individual
        should experience. It is easy to stay in the head. It is, after all, a
        mundane and familiar intellect. It requires courage to come down to the
        heart, because with the heart nothing is familiar, everything is fresh.
        At the head level you have a solid identity and familiar patterns. At
        the heart level there is no identity, no pattern. It is an open space.
        To enter into it, you need tremendous courage. That is why love is
        fearsome for many people. It is an unfamiliar zone. With the head, there
        is comfortable familiarity.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
