<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Introduction</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="introduction">
      <h1>Introduction</h1>

      <p>
        If you are here, it means Existence wants you to be here in this form.
        You are not an accident, you are an incident. You are a conscious
        miracle of Existence. Don’t think this is positive thinking. This is the
        straightforward and simple Truth. If you trust this Truth, you will
        start experiencing life in its pinnacle.
      </p>

      <p>
        Understand, Existence is trying to express itself through you. What you
        call your potential is nothing but the expression of Existence through
        you. When you freely allow this, you will start realizing your infinite
        potential. When you start becoming the fulfillment of Existence, you
        become flowing energy, which is what I call Living Enlightenment. Living
        Enlightenment is living with the flowing energy of Existence, in
        synchronicity with its miraculous happenings.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you live this way, you will find there is no personal barrier, no
        emotional baggage, nothing that holds you back in life. Life flows
        continuously like a river, carrying bliss and fulfillment every moment.
      </p>

      <p>
        In this book, you will find deeper truths and powerful techniques to
        tide over personal barriers and resolve emotional conflicts. You will
        also find truths that demystify your relevance in this vast cosmos, so
        you start moving in a higher plane of consciousness.
      </p>

      <p>
        This book is for anyone who wishes to live a fulfilling life. It reveals
        the secrets of the self, Existence and the world. It is for every
        individual to start experiencing the ultimate purpose of taking human
        birth on planet earth. It is meant to give the experience of:
      </p>

      <p>
        <em>Shakti</em>, the Energy to understand and change whatever you need
        to change in life
      </p>

      <p>
        <em>Buddhi</em>, the Intelligence to understand and accept whatever you
        don’t need to change in life
      </p>

      <p>
        <em>Yukti</em>, the Clarity to understand and realize that however much
        you change, whatever you see as reality is itself a continuously
        changing dream
      </p>

      <p>
        <em>Bhakti</em>, the Devotion, the feeling of deep connection to That
        which is unchanging, Eternal and Ultimate, and
      </p>

      <p>
        <em>Mukti</em>, the ultimate Liberation into Living Enlightenment when
        all these four are integrated.
      </p>

      <p>-Paramahamsa Nithyananda</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
