<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Love, hatred and attention-need</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Love, hatred and attention-need</h1>

      <p>
        As long as love is conditional, hatred and love are opposite sides of
        the same coin. Love can flip into hatred the moment we feel that our
        expectations are threatened.
      </p>

      <p>
        In love of this type, it remains love only as long as the conditions
        remain as expected. The moment the conditions change, the love also
        changes.
      </p>

      <p>
        Often what we believe as love is actually related to time and space. So
        long as the distance between the lovers is large and the time of contact
        is minimal, they feel love towards each other. However, once they get
        closer and spend more time together, they feel that they are not so much
        in love after all! That is why they say “familiarity breeds contempt”.
        Familiarity can also convert love into hatred. To transcend both love
        and hatred, we first need to drop expectations. Expectation is the first
        enemy of love.
      </p>

      <p>
        We all go through several stages of relationships in our lifetime. If
        you observe very closely, whichever stage we are in, when we ask for
        love we are actually asking only for the other person’s attention. When
        we say a person doesn’t love us, we actually mean that the other person
        doesn’t give us enough attention. The basic need for any human being is
        attention from others. The attention-need, along with our dependency on
        others for survival, is what we experience as love.
      </p>

      <p>
        The dependency on others might be psychological, physical or spiritual.
        For example, when you expect someone to lend you a shoulder to cry on,
        you are dependent upon him or her psychologically. When you expect
        someone to provide you with money or fulfill your bodily pleasures, you
        are dependent upon him or her physically. In whatever way people may
        fulfill this dependency, what it boils down to is the attention that
        they give us! The whole idea of love is nothing but getting the
        attention of the other in some way.
      </p>

      <p>
        In the first session of our meditation camp, I ask people to make an
        honest list of at least one or two persons in their lives who they
        really love. Usually in the beginning, people come up with a big list:
        husband, wife, father, mother, brother, sister and so on. They include
        people whom they would like to please or need to please in order to be
        happy themselves. As they hear me talk about real love, they start
        crossing out names from their list one by one! Understand, if you cross
        out something, then it was not truly there in the first place.
      </p>

      <p>
        Many people include certain people in their love list because these
        people give them a “feel good” feeling. What do I mean by a “feel good”
        feeling? It is a certificate saying, “You are good. You are this, you
        are that” etc. We love anyone who pays us compliments, is it not? We
        think twice before arguing with them. We secretly nurture our good name
        with them in the name of love. If they go back on their approval of us,
        we might fall into depression, so we continue to please them and love
        them. Like this, there is always some hidden reason for our love.
      </p>

      <p>
        Some people tell me, “No <em>Swamiji</em>, I don’t love my son or
        daughter for any of these reasons.” I ask them, “Alright, if your son
        suddenly starts to make his own decisions, if he suddenly doesn’t fit
        into your framework, if he doesn’t follow your guidance, if he doesn’t
        live according to your rules, will your love for him be the same?”
      </p>

      <p>They tell me, “No, it will not. My love will be reduced a little!”</p>

      <p>
        What does this mean? We love our next generation as long as they are
        extensions of our life. As long as they fall into our pattern of
        thinking, as long as they live in accordance with our conventions, we
        love them. We simply fulfill our own desires through them. We fulfill
        our lives through them. Whatever we couldn’t accomplish in our youth, we
        try to accomplish through them. We use them as an extension of our own
        lives. If we wanted to be doctors and couldn’t for some reason, we
        inspire them to be doctors. As long as they act and live as an extension
        of our life, the relationship is beautiful. But the moment they start
        deciding on their own, the moment they feel we are suffocating them, the
        moment they stand up and say “no”, the relationship takes a different
        turn.
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        There were three grownups having their morning tea together. Their
        children were playing on the floor. They were discussing what they would
        do if danger threatened, and all of them declared that the first thing
        they would do was pick up their children and escape.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Suddenly, the safety valve of the pressure cooker burst, creating a
        steam explosion in the room. Within seconds, everyone was out of the
        kitchen - except for the children playing on the floor!
      </p>

      <p>
        Our love is not as great as we claim it to be! Even we don’t know the
        real depth of our love, that’s the problem. We say and do a lot of
        things in the name of love. But reality can be shockingly different from
        all that. If we integrate the love emotion in us, it can become a highly
        sincere and authentic expression of our original nature.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
