<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Love is different from respect</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Love is different from respect</h1>

      <p>
        Very often, love is confused with respect. From a young age, children
        are brought up to always show respect but never to show love. You can
        hear people teach the children, “You should respect your elders.” You
        will hardly hear, “You should love your elders.” That is the problem.
      </p>

      <p>
        Respect sows the first guilt in you that you are something inferior. It
        makes you feel separate from the other person to whom you show respect.
        On the other hand, love sows the seeds of joy and unity in you. It makes
        you feel connected with the other person and with everything in
        Existence. With respect, there is fear. With love, there is authentic
        respect as well as the scope for deep understanding to happen. With
        respect alone, not much understanding is possible. With love, there is a
        possibility for tremendous understanding and transformation to happen.
        Love by its very nature is transforming. It softens and melts you.
      </p>

      <p>
        The scholar Professor Nicholson, composed a Sufi<sup
          id="love-is-different-from-respect-ref1"
          ><a href="#love-is-different-from-respect-1">1</a></sup
        >
        verse on love:
      </p>

      <p>“Love, Love alone can kill what seemed dead,</p>

      <p>the frozen snake of passion. Love alone</p>

      <p>By tearful prayers and fiery longing fed,</p>

      <p>Reveals a knowledge schools have never known.”</p>

      <p>
        Any stone heart can be melted with love. Only love can melt your
        hardness. Only love can keep you porous.
      </p>

      <p>
        Respect creates distance between you and the other. Love bridges the
        distance between you and the other. Only because people themselves have
        not experienced love, do they give respect as the rule of acceptable
        behavior. Respect is easier but not real. Love might be difficult only
        because not many know how to go about it, but it is real. With love,
        respect is automatic and authentic. With pure respect, the appearance of
        love is forced and may never be authentic.
      </p>
      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="love-is-different-from-respect-1">
            Sufi - Mystical dimension of Islam.
            <a href="#love-is-different-from-respect-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
