<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Love Existence and feel It loving you</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Love Existence and feel It loving you</h1>

      <p>
        Existence is not a thing. It is a living energy being. Every single
        tree, every single stalk of a plant responds to your love and hate, your
        every thought.
      </p>

      <p>
        Cleve Backster<sup id="love-existence-and-feel-it-loving-you-ref1"
          ><a href="#love-existence-and-feel-it-loving-you-1">1</a></sup
        >, a polygraph expert, has conducted several experiments to examine the
        response of plants to human emotions and thoughts. He discovered that
        plants would respond to human thought in a way similar to how a human
        being would respond. A simple thought by a person about burning the
        leaves of the plant would register erratic movement in the polygraph
        recording of the plant! Backster called this response “Primary
        Perception” - the ability of plant, animal and human cells to perceive
        and respond to any thought.
      </p>

      <p>
        On one occasion, Backster recorded graphs that registered a flat line
        that suggested the plants were in a state of shock. He asked the owner
        of the plant if she had done anything to hurt the plants. The lady told
        him, “I roasted a few of its leaves to get their dry weight!”
      </p>

      <p>
        When you start loving Existence, it begins responding to you in
        beautiful ways. You start rising above all of the differences around you
        - differences between people, situations, emotions, between anything and
        anything. Everything merges into unity. And that is the truth.
        Everything is part of one Whole. And love is the only thing that can
        make you realize this truth.
      </p>

      <p>
        In India, there is a tradition of spiritual wandering where people walk
        by foot the length and breadth of the country, visiting many temples and
        pilgrim centers. I used to wonder how they were able to do that,
        especially going through forests, sleeping with wild animals and begging
        for food. The secret is that they start feeling connected with nature so
        completely that nature protects them beautifully. Whether it rains or
        shines, the animals and trees, everything, takes care of them. Even
        though this may be logically difficult to understand, it is the truth.
      </p>

      <p>
        If you begin to live with a little respect and love for Existence and
        all its creations, you will be able to recognize these things happening
        in your own life as well. Nature will simply reciprocate your love in
        many beautiful ways.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="love-existence-and-feel-it-loving-you-1">
            Cleve Backster - A polygraph expert who studied behavior of plants
            subjected to threats or affection using the lie detector equipment.
            <a href="#love-existence-and-feel-it-loving-you-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
