<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Love and liberate, don’t possess</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Love and liberate, don’t possess</h1>

      <p>
        As long as our love happens towards a particular object, even if the
        object is a person, we will try to reduce that person only to the level
        of an object. That is exactly what we do when we feel possessive or
        attached to another person. In the way that we try to possess furniture
        or a house or any object, we try to possess the person also. We want the
        person to be just how we want him or her to be, which means we are
        actually reducing the person to sheer matter.
      </p>

      <p>
        So understand, whenever our love or our attention is towards something
        in particular, we will be only materialistic, we will be creating
        suffering for ourselves and for others. We will only suffocate the
        object or person. Instead, if we turn our attention towards the
        experience of love itself, we will be liberating the object and we too
        will be liberated from the object. That is the beauty of love that
        happens just as love and not for the sake of any object.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you start possessing someone, you bind yourself also. If you are
        walking holding your dog’s leash, be very clear that you are also bound.
        Don’t think only the dog is bound. You are also bound. Don’t think that
        only the dog cannot run away, you too cannot run away! You may be
        thinking that you are holding the rope and the dog may be thinking that
        he is holding the rope. Who knows?
      </p>

      <p>
        We always place our attention in the wrong space and miss the truth.
        When we place our attention on an object, we miss the inner experience
        of love that happens. We misunderstand that the excitement and the joy
        of love happens because of the object. We don’t understand that the
        excitement or the joy of love happens not because of the object but
        because of us. It is an energy that happens in us. If it was because of
        the object, then whenever the object came in contact with us, we would
        have the same excitement, am I right? But it does not happen that way.
        Even if the object continues to be there, the temperature of the
        excitement comes down after some time, which means that the excitement
        or the energy is not related to the object. It is related to the
        subject, which is us. It is related to the experience itself, not to the
        object.
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        An art collector traveled to a village. He saw a cat drinking milk from
        an old antique saucer outside a small tea shop. The art collector
        recognized the value of the saucer and wished to buy it.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        He approached the shop owner and asked him, “Sir, can I buy this cat for
        two dollars?” The shop owner refused saying he didn’t want to sell the
        cat.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The art collector said, “I want a cat because my house is haunted by
        mice. Please sell the cat to me. I am ready to pay ten dollars.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">The shop owner said, “Fine, sold! Have it!”</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Now the art collector said, “I will take the cat but can you give me the
        saucer also? Then I don’t have to buy a new saucer. The cat will be
        happy since she is already trained for this saucer. Why don’t you give
        me the saucer too?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The shop owner said, “No! That’s my lucky saucer. Only because of that I
        have sold sixty eight cats in the last one week!”
      </p>

      <p>
        The art collector wanted to get the saucer but got only the cat. We too
        miss what has to be really experienced in life because we go after the
        object and not the subject.
      </p>

      <p>
        The next time you are with someone, when you are with your friend with
        whom you are completely open, remember to practice this technique.
      </p>

      <p>
        Just sit next to him or her. Don’t bother about what you are going to do
        or what you are going to say. Just sit, that’s all! That is the
        technique. Actually, speaking is nothing but avoiding the other person.
        Because you cannot look into the other person’s eyes, you go on
        speaking. That is the truth. The other person listens so that he can
        start speaking whenever you take a break! If a person is listening to
        you, it means that he is either thinking of something else or he is
        preparing for his turn. He sits there so that he can start once you
        finish.
      </p>

      <p>
        Now if you try this technique, it can take you to a different space
        altogether. When you are with the master or your friend or your beloved,
        whoever you feel deeply connected with, whoever you are very open with,
        you can try this technique. It will straightaway lead you to
        enlightenment. Be very clear, I am not teaching this technique for you
        to have better relationships or for you to develop your personality. No!
        I am giving it to you to straightaway experience the pure love that can
        lead you to enlightenment.
      </p>

      <p>
        The big problem is that you never sit in a relaxed way. Either you are
        driven by greed, meaning you are in a hurry to say or do something, or
        you don’t know what you are doing and so you are caught with fear. You
        just try to finish your job and escape! Either you are in greed or you
        are in fear. But for now, just relax. Be neither in fear nor in greed.
      </p>

      <p>
        Just sit in the present. Just feel the other person’s presence. Accept
        the other person as he or she is, as that being is, and feel what
        happens inside you. Try this for a few days. Suddenly you will see that
        you will experience a different space, one you have never before
        experienced in your life.
      </p>

      <p>
        This is a technique from the
        <em>Shiva Sutras</em
        ><sup id="love-and-liberate-dont-possess-ref1"
          ><a href="#love-and-liberate-dont-possess-1">1</a></sup
        >, a collection of techniques for enlightenment delivered by Shiva<sup
          id="love-and-liberate-dont-possess-ref2"
          ><a href="#love-and-liberate-dont-possess-2">2</a></sup
        >. This technique will take you through a quantum jump from the form to
        the formless, from possessive love to causeless love.
      </p>

      <p>
        You may be attached to your beloved or god or master or friend or
        whomever. To move from that attachment, to move from the form to the
        formless, this is the technique. You can take a quantum jump into love
        with this. With this jump you will see that love happens not as an
        attachment to a particular object but as an overflowing energy that
        doesn’t look for any attachment in the outer world. It is just your own
        overflowing that you share, that’s all. It happens irrespective of
        whether the object is there or not.
      </p>

      <p>
        When love happens as causeless overflowing, you simply liberate yourself
        and the other person from your own attachment and possessiveness,
        because possessiveness as you know it, binds not only the other person
        but you as well. It tortures the other person as well as you! Real love
        simply liberates both of you. It gives freedom to you and the other
        person.
      </p>

      <p>
        When I travel around the world, people ask me, “Did you sleep well last
        night? It is a new place for you.” I tell them, “Only when you have
        attachment to a particular house does another house become a new place
        for you and you struggle. When you don’t have attachment to any house,
        you feel at home wherever you go!”
      </p>

      <p>
        I never feel any place is mine or not mine. I feel totally at home
        anywhere. The comfort is always within us, never outside us. When there
        is no comfort within us, we look for comfort outside us. Feeling
        comfortable within us is the result of the causeless love energy. When
        we don’t feel attached to one home, we feel at home in the entire world.
        We are totally relaxed anywhere in the world.
      </p>

      <p>
        People ask me, “<em>Swamiji</em>, how are you able to travel so often
        and not feel unsettled?” This question comes mostly from people who
        travel for business. They say, “If we go go to one or two places and
        come back, it takes one week to recover, settle down and get back into
        our routine and feel comfortable, to feel like ourselves again. How do
        you travel so continuously?” The secret is the same thing I told you
        earlier. I don’t feel attached or connected to any one house, so I feel
        connected to the whole world! There is a deep feeling of being at home
        with the whole world. With this feeling, wherever you go, you will
        experience a deep, relaxed bliss and ecstasy because that bliss doesn’t
        come from the outer home but from the inner home.
      </p>
      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="love-and-liberate-dont-possess-1">
            Shiva Sutras - A collection of teachings of enlightened master Shiva
            in epigram form as techniques. Includes Vignana Bhairava Tantra,
            Guru Gita, Tiru Mandiram, etc.
            <a href="#love-and-liberate-dont-possess-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="love-and-liberate-dont-possess-2">
            Shiva - enlightened Master from India who delivered the universal
            Truths in the form of scriptures like Shiva Sutras.
            <a href="#love-and-liberate-dont-possess-ref2">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
