<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Love yourself first</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Love yourself first</h1>

      <p>
        The big problem today is that most people don’t love themselves. Society
        never teaches that it is possible to love ourselves.
      </p>

      <p>
        Understand that unless you love yourself, you cannot possibly love
        another person. Only when you lose yourself to yourself can you lose
        yourself to others. We are taught that we can only love even ourselves
        if we have a reason. If we perform well, we love ourselves. If we fail,
        we hate ourselves. We apply the same logic to others. We love them only
        because of something, never without a cause or a reason.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you don’t love yourself, you become cynical and negative towards
        life. When you were alone in your mother’s womb, you were completely
        loving and blissful. In your aloneness in the womb you experienced your
        loving self. That is why you will see that you assume the fetal posture
        whenever you lie down with insecurity. Blissful aloneness is your
        original nature. Once you came into the world, society conditioned you
        to believe that you needed people and television to be loving and happy.
        It never nurtured your original quality. Your original quality is
        blissful aloneness. If you get back in touch with that, you will settle
        down and feel peaceful and relaxed within yourself.
      </p>

      <p>
        For a few minutes every day, just sit by yourself and feel overflowing
        love towards yourself. Feel what a wonderful being you are. Feel how
        much you have taken yourself for granted. Feel yourself as part of
        Existence and love yourself for it. Melt with the feeling of love for
        yourself. If you practice this everyday you will see that where you were
        once hard and self-centered, now you have become soft and loving.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you deeply settle down within yourself with peace and love, bliss
        will explode in you. When your nerves are clean, when your nervous
        system is cleaned by peace, bliss will explode. You will start
        expressing the same bliss that is expressed in the master’s body
        language.
      </p>

      <p>
        Then when people love you, you don’t feel guilty or unworthy because
        just as they love you, you love yourself too. You become ready to
        receive love from others. Usually when others show love to you, you feel
        guilty or unworthy because you don’t feel you are worth being loved.
        Once you settle within yourself with deep love, you will receive others’
        love with joy.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
