<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Love is the root of all religion</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Love is the root of all religion</h1>

      <p>
        Love is the original religion. It is the root of all spirituality. All
        other religions are offshoots. Love is like the root of the tree and all
        religions are like leaves or branches. Even the greatest religions are
        only big branches compared to the religion of love!
      </p>

      <p>
        Love has no temple or scripture. It is like the roots that lie beneath
        the ground but provide the nourishment for life. Without it, the whole
        tree dies. Through love many branches and leaves are created. But what
        do we do? We cling to the branches and leaves instead of clinging to the
        root. When we cling to the root, we get the direct nourishment. When we
        cling to the branches, we enjoy only one dimension of the nourishment.
        When you become more loving, you will enter the invisible temple of
        love.
      </p>

      <p>
        Tree roots contain the information about all the trees in this world,
        just like a dewdrop contains information about all the oceans in the
        world. If we understand the structure of a drop of water, we will
        understand everything about all the oceans on earth. We will understand
        the compound called water itself. Water anywhere cannot be anything
        other than its chemical composition. That composition is ingrained in
        the smallest particle, and that is the dew drop.
      </p>

      <p>
        In the same way, man is an atom of love. And love is nothing but the
        quality of Existence. If love is known, the whole of Existence can be
        experienced. Understand that the composition of man is not physical,
        chemical or even psychological, it is spiritual. Nobody can teach us
        what it is. We must experience it on our own. All other knowledge is
        transferable: physical, chemical, scientific and psychological. All such
        knowledge is easily transferable. Only spiritual knowledge is not. It
        cannot be taught as such, but it can be experienced!
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One day a master asked his disciples how they could tell when the night
        had ended and the day had begun.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One of them said, “When you can look in the distance and tell whether
        the animal is a cow or a horse.” The master said, “No.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Another disciple said, “When you can look at a tree in the distance and
        tell if it is a pine tree or a mango tree.” The master again said, “No.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">They asked the master, “Then what is it master?”</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The master replied, “When you can look into the face of any man and
        recognize your brother in him. When you can look into the face of any
        woman and recognize your sister in her. If you cannot do this, then no
        matter what time of the day it is, it is still only night time.”
      </p>

      <p>
        The master can give a few hints, little hints here and there. Then we
        must find our own way carefully, cautiously. Love is just a hint, but if
        we follow love slowly, very slowly, we will be surprised that god
        becomes more and more of a reality. He is no longer just a thought, no
        longer simply an idea, but something that we can feel. The deeper we go
        into love, the closer we come to the feeling. The day we dissolve into
        love we merge with unity.
      </p>

      <p>
        Love is the secret of all religions. In spite of this, people are lost
        in logic and theology. Theology is as far away from religion as anything
        can be. There can be no logic about god, there can be only love. God is
        in poetry. He is in music and in dance, but never in logic.
      </p>

      <p>
        God is not an idea that can be arrived at through logical processes. He
        is an interior experience, so deeply interior that one must go there
        absolutely alone to discover it.
      </p>

      <p>
        From time immemorial, the conclusion of many mystics has been that
        matter is glued together with love. An invisible force keeps atoms and
        molecules together. They do not fall apart because of this invisible
        force. Science has yet to discover this ultimate energy. It has detected
        a few of its manifestations such as gravitation and electricity but
        these are only gross manifestations. The day that science discovers love
        will be the day when religion and science will commune with each other
        in the same language.
      </p>

      <p>
        For now, just rejoice because love is possible. Be joyful that love is
        your inner potential. You can rise to the ultimate heights with love.
        Nothing is impossible with love because love can transform itself into
        god.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
