<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Enter into causeless Love</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Enter into causeless Love</h1>

      <p>
        People tell me they feel such exuding love towards me. I always tell
        them, use that flowing love as a gateway to jump towards the whole of
        humanity. The love towards the master is like food. If you digest it,
        you become energetic and you radiate the same energy in your life.
      </p>

      <p>
        Buddha<sup id="enter-into-causeless-love-ref1"
          ><a href="#enter-into-causeless-love-1">1</a></sup
        >
        says, “I live in the commune.” He means, “Don’t direct your attention
        towards me. Direct your attention towards the whole world.” If the
        object of love is removed, then the whole world becomes the object. Then
        you will never enter into suffering.
      </p>

      <p>
        The first thing we need to understand is that relationships can happen
        causelessly, without any reason. Only then will we understand that the
        experience of love is much more important than the object of love.
      </p>

      <p>
        You must have at least one relationship in your life that exists for no
        reason. If you don’t have such a relationship, be very clear, even if
        you have money, deep down you are still poor.
      </p>

      <p>
        From today onwards start relating with someone for no reason. There
        should be no monetary or physical benefit from the relationship. If you
        experience causeless love once, after that, if the money is shared, if
        the body is shared, it is okay. The quality is totally different. I am
        not against money or against marriage. I am not against the physical
        relationship, but if it becomes the center of your life, you are missing
        something very important. That is what I want to convey here. You miss a
        major dimension or energy center of your being.
      </p>

      <p>I am reminded of a small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        There was a blind girl who hated herself because she was blind. She
        hated everyone except her boyfriend.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The girl told her boyfriend that if she could only see the world, she
        would marry him.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A few days later, her doctor told her that someone donated a pair of
        eyes to her. She underwent the surgery and she opened her eyes to see
        everything, including her boyfriend.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Her boyfriend asked her, “Now that you can see, will you marry me?” The
        girl was shocked when she saw that her boyfriend was blind. She said, “I
        am sorry but I can’t marry you because you are blind.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Her boyfriend walked away sadly. He told her just one thing, “Just take
        care of my eyes, dear.”
      </p>

      <p>
        That is why it is said that you have to create your being. You have to
        awaken the center of love in you. You should have at least one
        relationship in your life from which you do not expect anything beyond
        just the relationship. You should develop one relationship in which you
        do not receive any utility from that relationship, be it monetary or
        physical comfort or name and fame. Have at least one relationship... it
        could even be with a tree or the moon or the sun. The criterion is that
        you should not have any benefit from the relationship. Only then you
        will understand the word “love”. Only then the love center in you will
        be awakened.
      </p>

      <p>
        I always tell people, “Do some work for half hour everyday that does not
        bring you money or name and fame. Just for half an hour, go to some
        temple or church, clean and sweep the floor, offer some service. Don’t
        plan to become a committee member in that place! Don’t think that it
        will fetch you good credit and a place in heaven... no. Don’t look any
        further than that work for half an hour.”
      </p>

      <p>
        Initially you may think, “This half hour is a waste of time!” After a
        few days you will realize that only in that half hour are you really
        alive! Only for that half hour you are not driven by fear or greed. You
        smile at the people around you without any calculation. You feel
        strangely sincere in a way that you never felt before.
      </p>

      <p>
        If you observe yourself at other times, you will see that you even smile
        only after some mental calculation. Even before laughing you will see
        who is the person next to you. Based on that, you decide how many inches
        to open your mouth, how polite you should be, how you should project
        yourself. To overcome these conditionings, just for half an hour try
        this technique that does not bring you money, that does not bring you
        name and fame, that does not give you any social position, that does not
        give you anything in return. Then you will understand what I mean by the
        words “causeless relationship”. You will see that soon only that half
        hour becomes the real life for you!
      </p>

      <p>
        As of now, every action of yours is driven by fear and greed. You are
        fuelled by fear and greed. That’s why you feel lonely and tired.
      </p>

      <p>
        If you try this technique, you will suddenly see that your body and mind
        start functioning without the need for fear and greed! Once you learn
        this simple knack of how to move your body without fear and greed, be
        very clear, you can enter into love. You learn how to tap into the
        energy of love. You learn how to run your life on the beautiful energy
        of love. Only then will you know what is meant by the word “love”.
      </p>

      <p>
        A new center will be awakened in you. A new energy will start radiating
        in you. Then you will understand how loving and causeless relationships
        are possible.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="enter-into-causeless-love-1">
            Buddha - Enlightened master and founder of the religion of Buddhism.
            <a href="#enter-into-causeless-love-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
