<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Love in relationships</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Love in relationships</h1>

      <p>
        In real life, we always look to express our love towards others in some
        tangible way. Only if love is demonstrated in tangible form, it is
        considered to be love nowadays.
      </p>

      <p>
        True love is like a communion. It is a resonance between two beings. It
        can be felt without any expression. It doesn’t need communication
        because it is already happening as a communion.
      </p>

      <p>
        If you really love a person, then your very body language will show it.
        It will be too much to express in words. You will feel that words are
        inadequate and will only bring down the love that you feel. But if you
        are using words, then somewhere the love has not really happened. When
        you have to speak to express love, then somewhere there is a lie in it!
        You are using the words just to decorate the lie.
      </p>

      <p>
        Real love liberates because it doesn’t compel you to express it all the
        time. It just is. Real love also gives you the freedom to freely express
        what you want to express. You can easily express anything like
        disapproval or anger and it will not be mistaken for reduced love.
      </p>

      <p>
        Not only that, with real love, there will be no domination or power play
        in relationships. Each person will be like a beautiful flower that has
        blossomed to radiate its unique fragrance, that’s all.
      </p>

      <p>
        With real love, there will be no fear or insecurity either. In normal
        love, physical distance between two people causes a lot of insecurity
        and a lack of trust.
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A young soldier went to his senior officer and said, “Sir, my friend is
        not yet back from the battlefield. I request permission to go out and
        get him.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The officer said, “Permission refused. Your friend is most probably
        dead. I don’t want you to risk your life going there.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The young soldier went all the same and came back mortally wounded and
        carrying the corpse of his friend.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The officer was furious. He shouted, “I told you he was dead. Now I have
        lost both of you. Tell me, was it worth going out there to bring a
        corpse?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        On the verge of dying, the soldier replied, “It was, Sir. When I got
        there he was still alive. He said to me, I was sure you would come.”
      </p>

      <p>
        Real love doesn’t look for utility. It operates on sheer trust and is
        also beyond space and time.
      </p>

      <p>
        These days I see people gifting each other with so many things to show
        their love. Gifting has become an expression of love. If the gifting
        happens as causeless overflowing, it is okay. But if it is a condition
        to be fulfilled, it becomes a problem! Then it becomes a poor substitute
        for real love.
      </p>

      <p>
        As long as real love is there, no relationship can become boring.
        Understand, as long as love is there, every object or person is unique.
        For example, if the coworker in your office dies, nothing will really
        stop you in your life. Along with the others, you will console his
        family members and continue with life, that’s all. But what happens if
        you are in love with the same coworker who passed away? Life will never
        be the same again, am I right? Whenever you are in love with some object
        or person, or somebody is in love with you, the whole relationship
        becomes unique. Love makes things unique.
      </p>

      <p>
        One of the ashramites<sup id="love-in-relationships-ref1"
          ><a href="#love-in-relationships-1">1</a></sup
        >
        asked me one day, “<em>Swamiji</em>, everyday you see all of us, all our
        mistakes and confusions. It is the same thing for you every day. Are you
        not bored by us?” It was a very honest question! I told them, “For
        enlightened beings, just because of their very love, they feel everybody
        is unique. They do not look at people as mere numbers. They see each one
        as unique.”
      </p>

      <p>
        That is why, with so much patience, masters continue to work with
        everybody. If it were just a matter of numbers, it would be very
        different. When you have this love, your inner space is such that there
        is no logical reason behind your actions. You will just feel connected
        and you will radiate love, that’s all!
      </p>

      <p>
        Not only that, causeless overflowing love is always total in its
        expression. It doesn’t carry the usual dilutions of greed or fear. So
        any person whom you love, you will love totally without any
        reservations. Irrespective of the way he is, you will love him. When you
        love this way, even if the person leaves your life, you will not grieve.
      </p>

      <p>
        When a person passes away, you grieve only because you regret not having
        loved him completely. You can love him completely only when your love
        itself is complete. It doesn’t have anything to do with the other
        person. It doesn’t matter what kind of person he is. That is the beauty
        of real love. It loves for the sake of love, not for the sake of the
        other person.
      </p>

      <p>
        If you are grieving for the loss of a person, be very clear, you are
        grieving because you missed loving him in totality. If you had loved him
        in totality, you would say goodbye to him with complete restfulness, not
        with grief. You grieve only because you missed something somewhere. Even
        if it is your own father or husband or wife, it is the same. If you had
        radiated your causeless love to them when they were alive, then when
        they left there would not be any regret. But if you had loved them with
        rationalizations, then when they left, the incompleteness of your love
        towards them would create a hangover, and that hangover is what you feel
        as grief.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="love-in-relationships-1">
            <em>Ashramites</em> - Residents of ashram.
            <a href="#love-in-relationships-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
