<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Three types of Love and their integration</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Three types of Love and their integration</h1>

      <p>
        Many people confuse lust with love. This is one of the greatest
        tragedies. The person who thinks lust is love remains confined to the
        physical plane. He never rises higher than that. He has no idea that
        there is a higher plane. He remains in the basement of his house. Sex is
        the basement. It is not the place to live in. You can use it for other
        purposes, but it can’t be your home. Your home is above it.
      </p>

      <p>
        Man has three planes of being, which are animal, human and divine. First
        is the plane of lust, which is the animal plane. It is a crude form of
        love. It is not that love is not present there. Love is mixed or
        polluted by gross greed and desire, that’s all.
      </p>

      <p>
        As our being becomes more refined, we enter the second plane, ordinary
        human love. Human love has traces of possessiveness and jealousy. Since
        human love is grounded in greater understanding than animal love, one
        does not simply use the other person for his or her own gain. Human love
        is capable of seeing the other as an end unto itself.
      </p>

      <p>
        The third type of love is divine love. It is love in its highest form,
        almost like a prayer. There is no possessiveness. There is nothing
        earthly in it. It becomes an invisible but powerful force. This is when
        love becomes prayer and we feel restful contentment for the first time.
        I say restful because the other two types of love always keep reaching
        for more or keep missing something. There is no restfulness in them.
        When the third type of love happens, even sex becomes a deep and divine
        act beyond mere physical pleasure.
      </p>

      <p>
        In India, people consider the place where three rivers meet to be
        sacred. It is a metaphor because man is a meeting place of three forces:
        physical, psychological and spiritual. When these three forces
        <em>really</em> meet, there is great joy and bliss.
      </p>

      <p>
        Ordinarily we live in compartments. Our body lives in one compartment,
        our mind lives in another and our soul lives in a third compartment. The
        body is unaware of the mind. The mind is unaware of the body. The soul
        is not known to the mind. The body is oblivious of the soul. They are
        together but they don’t know each other.
      </p>

      <p>
        The first step of meditation is to bring them closer together, to
        introduce them to each other and link them in a deep friendship so that
        a merger becomes possible. When all three dimensions merge into one
        point, the fourth dimension is born. Out of the meeting of the three,
        the fourth is born. That fourth is god or Existence or Divinity or
        whatever you wish to call it. The whole work of spirituality is to
        create an alchemy in which the body melts into the mind, the mind melts
        into the soul, the soul melts into the mind, and the mind melts into the
        body. By and by, slowly, very slowly, they become one integrated
        phenomenon. Love is the outcome of it.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
