<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>The unity of Love</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>The unity of Love</h1>

      <p>
        Children feel that they are adults only when they say “no” to their
        parents. It is a basic instinct. When they say “no” they feel that they
        are established as an individual. That is why, all over the world,
        youngsters always rebel. Whether it is in the West or in the East, in
        all the countries all over the world, in all the cultures, the youth say
        “no”. When they say “no”, they feel they are strong.
      </p>

      <p>
        But our love is dependent only on “yes”. As long as we receive “yes”,
        our love also is “yes”. When we get a “no”, we also start saying “no”.
        This is called horizontal love. It starts and ends horizontally. It
        starts again and ends again. It always ends with some reason or other.
        There is another love called vertical love. It never ends because it
        never starts. It is always there in the form of energy. It is
        consciousness. Vertical love is when we suddenly realize that we are
        living inside everybody just as we live inside our own body!
      </p>

      <p>
        There is a beautiful example given in the
        <em>Upanishads</em
        ><sup id="the-unity-of-love-ref1"
          ><a href="#the-unity-of-love-1">1</a></sup
        >:
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A master asked his disciple, “Do you enjoy all your five senses?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">The disciple said, “Yes.”</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The master asked, “What if one of your senses was missing, would you
        have the same amount of joy?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The disciple replied, “No, it would be twenty percent less, and if two
        of my senses were missing, it would be forty percent less.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The master suddenly said, “What if you had five more senses?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The disciple answered, “Naturally my enjoyment would be a hundred
        percent extra.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        If I am given one more body, naturally I will enjoy everything twice as
        much. Or if I am given five bodies, naturally I will enjoy things five
        times as much.”
      </p>

      <p>
        If you are able to experience yourself as being alive in all the bodies
        of this world, imagine how much joy or ecstasy you would experience! It
        would be immeasurable, eternal and ultimate. That is what enlightened
        people experience all the time. They experience themselves as the whole
        universe. They experience tremendous ecstasy. That is why they don’t
        need anything from the outer world. They are enough unto themselves.
        They are established in the highest form of love energy.
      </p>

      <p>
        In Krishna’s<sup id="the-unity-of-love-ref2"
          ><a href="#the-unity-of-love-2">2</a></sup
        >
        life, the whole happening of <em>Ras Leela</em
        ><sup id="the-unity-of-love-ref3"
          ><a href="#the-unity-of-love-3">3</a></sup
        >
        is one of causeless love, the Divine love that permeates the entire
        universe. Ras Leela is misinterpreted by many people as Krishna having a
        physical relationship with the cowherd women. Understand, Krishna is a
        superconscious being and Ras Leela happened when Krishna was around
        eight years old! It is in no way related to any physical relationship.
        It was a pure and causeless spiritual happening.
      </p>

      <p>
        Radha<sup id="the-unity-of-love-ref4"
          ><a href="#the-unity-of-love-4">4</a></sup
        >, Krishna’s beloved, was attached to Krishna, but she never really
        experienced pure joy. She had constant mood swings with possessiveness
        and jealousy. During Ras Leela, Krishna, as a superconscious being, gave
        her the experience of seeing him simultaneously with every single
        cowherd girl present there. He wanted to show her that he is in every
        physical form, not just in his own form. Such is the manifestation of
        divine loving beings! with every single cowherd girl present there. He
        wanted to show her that he is in every physical form, not just in his
        own form. Such is the manifestation of divine loving beings!
      </p>

      <p>
        There is another beautiful poem by Jalaluddin Rumi<sup
          id="the-unity-of-love-ref5"
          ><a href="#the-unity-of-love-5">5</a></sup
        >, the Sufi<sup id="the-unity-of-love-ref6"
          ><a href="#the-unity-of-love-6">6</a></sup
        >
        mystic. He writes:
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">One went to the door of the Beloved and knocked.</p>

      <p class="p-story">A voice asked, “Who is there?”</p>

      <p class="p-story">He answered, “It is I.”</p>

      <p class="p-story">The voice said, “There is no room for Me and Thee.”</p>

      <p class="p-story">The door was shut.</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        After a year of solitude and deprivation he returned and knocked.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">A voice from within asked, “Who is there?”</p>

      <p class="p-story">The man said, “It is Thee.”</p>

      <p class="p-story">The door was opened for him.</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        In real love, there is no duality. There is just oneness with everyone
        and everything. That is the ultimate stage of love.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="the-unity-of-love-1">
            <em>Upanishads</em> - Scriptures that form the essence of the
            ancient texts of the Vedas. Literally means “sitting with the
            master”. There are eleven main <em>Upanishads</em> that have been
            commented on by enlightened master Adi Shankara.
            <a href="#the-unity-of-love-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="the-unity-of-love-2">
            Krishna - Enlightened master from India who delivered the Truths of
            the Bhagavad Gita.
            <a href="#the-unity-of-love-ref2">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="the-unity-of-love-3">
            <em>Ras Leela</em> - The spiritual interaction of enlightened master
            Krishna with the <em>gopis</em> or cowherd women devotees.
            <a href="#the-unity-of-love-ref3">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="the-unity-of-love-4">
            Radha - Chief among the <em>gopis</em> or cowherd women devotees of
            enlightened master Krishna.
            <a href="#the-unity-of-love-ref4">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="the-unity-of-love-5">
            Jalaluddin Rumi - 13th century Persian Sufi poet.
            <a href="#the-unity-of-love-ref5">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="the-unity-of-love-6">
            Sufism - Mystical dimension of Islam.
            <a href="#the-unity-of-love-ref6">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
