<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>What is Worry?</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>What is Worry?</h1>

      <p>
        We talked of love so far. Love is about our relationship with others.
        Love is also about our relationship with ourselves. Without loving
        ourselves we cannot love others. What prevents us from loving our own
        self is the constant worry or irritation that we generate within us.
        Whether things go right or wrong we worry. There is nothing more
        corrosive to our self-esteem than worry. What is this worry?
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">A man walked into a bar looking worried and upset.</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The bartender asked him, “What’s the matter? You look very worried about
        something.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The man said, “My wife and I had a fight and she told me that she
        wouldn’t talk to me for a month.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The bartender consoled him, “It’s okay. One month isn’t that long.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">The man said, “I know. The month is up today!”</p>

      <p>
        Everyone has his or her own set of worries! If I ask you what you worry
        about, you will tell me, “I don’t have a job, that’s my worry.” Your
        neighbor will say, “My job is my main worry!” Someone else will say, “My
        children are my worry.” Another person will say, “I don’t have children,
        that’s my worry!”
      </p>

      <p>
        One person’s dream is another person’s worry! You will not find any
        logic in it at all.
      </p>

      <p>
        What is meant by “worry”? Worry arises whenever things are not happening
        as you want them to happen. It is the discrepancy between your
        expectations and reality. For example, you feel your son should stay at
        home with you, whereas he feels he should be by himself, away from you.
        You feel your salary should be a few thousand dollars more. Your boss
        feels otherwise. You want to finish your project by a certain time. But
        things are happening too slowly and it seems an impossible task. These
        are all causes for worry. What you want and expect does not match what
        others want and expect.
      </p>

      <p>
        You continuously expect things to happen in a certain way. Whether it is
        as big as your career or as small as what time your husband should come
        home for a meal, you continuously impose your will upon what is
        happening and worry about it.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
