<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>See what is as it IS - and move on</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>See what is as it IS - and move on</h1>

      <p>
        Buddha<sup id="see-what-is-as-it-is-and-move-on-ref1"
          ><a href="#see-what-is-as-it-is-and-move-on-1">1</a></sup
        >, an enlightened master, used the word <em>tathata</em> - seeing what
        is as it IS. It is seeing what is there as it is, without any judgment.
      </p>

      <p>
        But most of the time we see things only through our <em>worry</em>. When
        we see everything as it is, there is only joy, and when there is joy, no
        thoughts get recorded in you. There are only empty spaces. That is why
        when you are joyful you feel light, because nothing gets recorded. When
        you see everything through worry, more thoughts get recorded in you and
        you feel heavy.
      </p>

      <p>
        There is a common saying, “We don’t see things as they are. We see
        things as we are.” If you feel there is something wrong with what you
        are seeing, then you should look back in at yourself because what you
        see outside is only a reflection of what is inside you. If you feel pure
        love inside, then you see only pure love outside. It always has to do
        with you, not with what you are seeing.
      </p>

      <p>
        How can you keep thoughts away from what truly IS? How can you enjoy
        each moment all the time?
      </p>

      <p>
        Try this small technique. When you see something, for example a person,
        or a situation, or a book, or anything, normally old thoughts and
        familiar reactions immediately rise in you. Bring in the awareness that
        these conditioned thoughts and memories cloud your judgment and
        visualize shattering those thoughts. Next, see the situation, or person,
        or object now with a fresh eye, as though you are seeing it for the
        first time! Suddenly you see how much you missed, because of your own
        worry and thoughts.
      </p>

      <p>
        Even when you see your husband, wife, brother, or anyone, look at them
        as though you are seeing them for the first time. Suddenly, you realize
        that not only does worry not arise, but also that you start seeing
        everyone alike, whether they are strangers or familiar to you. That is
        the right way. No one is familiar or unchanging. Even your wife is not
        known to you. Everyone is constantly changing every moment along with
        Existence. Only your mind is trying to make them appear to be permanent.
      </p>

      <p>
        Once you start seeing what is as it is, all your energy will integrate
        within you. There is no more worry, no more conflict. Worry arises
        because your thoughts resist what you see. Once the conflict disappears,
        all the energy invested in worry is released for you to integrate!
      </p>

      <p>
        Some one asked J. Krishnamurti<sup
          id="see-what-is-as-it-is-and-move-on-ref2"
          ><a href="#see-what-is-as-it-is-and-move-on-2">2</a></sup
        >, the famous Indian philosopher, how to fall in tune with what IS. He
        beautifully says, “Just don’t name it, you will find you are in tune
        with it!”
      </p>

      <p>
        Usually, when we see something, we either try to identify with it or we
        try to condemn it. For example, if you are told you are arrogant, you
        either accept it or you try not to be arrogant! You never understand or
        go beyond arrogance. You can only understand within your frame of
        reference, what you are familiar with. Because of this, you are caught
        in a limited view of possibilities. To really understand, you need to go
        beyond this limited point-of-view. To do that, you have to stop naming
        it arrogance, that’s all! There will be no more arrogance. Only by
        naming it, you start the conflict. That is how you see what IS - by not
        naming it.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One man got onto a bus and sat down next to a young man. He could see
        that the man was a hippy. He was wearing only one shoe.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">He asked him, “You have lost one shoe?”</p>

      <p class="p-story">The young man replied, “No, I have found one shoe.”</p>

      <p>
        Stop naming any situation, person, or thing! Just see, that’s all. Don’t
        give room for condemning or accepting thoughts.
      </p>

      <p>
        Initially there’s a compulsion to pass judgment on anything that you see
        because that is your habit. But when you experience the great energy
        released in you by seeing what IS, you want to remain that way - free
        from thoughts, worry, and suffering.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you see what is as it is, you are in heaven. When you want to see
        what you want to see, you are in hell. If you understand that everything
        is auspiciousness, you will drop expectation and see things as they are,
        because everything is auspiciousness.
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One disciple kept asking the master, “Master, where is paradise?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Finally one day, the master asked him, “Do you really want to know?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">The disciple sat up and said, “Yes!”</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The master said, “Alright, my first disciple Hemachandra is in
        paradise.” After saying these words the master closed his eyes and went
        into meditation.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The disciple knew it would be a long time before the master opened his
        eyes. So, he went and asked some of the disciples if they knew where
        Hemachandra lived. No one seemed to know.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Finally one disciple said, “I know how to guide you there, but I have
        never been there myself. It is in a deep valley beyond a range of ice
        covered mountains.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The disciple wrote down the directions carefully and went back to the
        master. He told him, “Master, I wish to pay a visit to Hemachandra!”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The master was absorbed deeply in some work. Without even looking up he
        said, “Go ahead.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The disciple started on his journey. He walked for many days, passing
        through sun, rain, snow, and what not. He became exhausted, on the verge
        of death. It took him one hundred days to reach the valley. When he
        finally reached it he looked at the valley and thought, “This valley
        doesn’t look all that great. I have seen many more beautiful valleys.
        Why did the master call this paradise?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        He looked around and walked further and finally found Hemachandra’s hut.
        Hemachandra was very pleased to see him. He served him food and asked
        how the master and other disciples were doing.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        All along, the disciple was thinking to himself, “Master called this
        place paradise? I can’t believe it.”
      </p>

      <p>
        After a week-long stay he left and returned to his master. It took him
        another one hundred days to return home.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        He went straight to the master and stated, “You said that the place is
        paradise. But what I saw was the most ordinary place ever!”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The master said, “Oh god! At the time of your enquiry, had you been more
        explicit about your intention, I would have told you the truth.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">The disciple asked, “What is the truth?”</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The master replied, “Hemachandra is not in paradise. Paradise is in
        him!”
      </p>

      <p>
        When you live close to Existence, without any expectation, seeing what
        is as it is and finding the blessings in it, you will carry heaven in
        you! Heaven is not geographical, it is psychological. It is not
        physical, it is mental. If you decide, you can be in heaven right now.
      </p>

      <p>
        Many people get worried about what they see in their dreams and come to
        me for interpretations. I tell them that we are unable to even accept
        what happens in reality, then why bother about what happens in our
        dreams?
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One day, a man dreamt a strange dream and became very curious to know
        what the dream meant. He went to his master, told him about the dream
        and asked for an explanation.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The master told him, “Come to me with dreams that come to you in your
        wakeful state. We will work them out. The dreams of your sleep belong
        neither to my wisdom, nor to your imagination.”
      </p>

      <p>
        If you are still worried about your dreams, you should know that dreams
        tell you about the state of your mind during the day. Learn from your
        dreams and think how to transform the mind during the daytime. For
        example, if you think too much about lust when you are awake, your
        dreams will be lustful. If you worry too much about passing with high
        grades, you will write exams in your dreams! If you worry too much about
        relationships, you will fight with someone in your dream. So wake up to
        what your dreams indicate to you. There is nothing more to interpret
        from your dreams. Wake up and see what is as it IS.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="see-what-is-as-it-is-and-move-on-1">
            Buddha - Enlightened master and founder of the religion of Buddhism.
            <a href="#see-what-is-as-it-is-and-move-on-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="see-what-is-as-it-is-and-move-on-2">
            J. Krishnamurti - Renowned Indian philosopher.
            <a href="#see-what-is-as-it-is-and-move-on-ref2">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
