<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Awareness - the benign virus!</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Awareness - the benign virus!</h1>

      <p>What is the solution to this distorted software of the mind?</p>

      <p>
        Deep awareness is the solution. Deep awareness is like a benign virus,
        if such a thing exists! Once awareness enters your system, the more you
        work with the mind, the more the awareness gets into the worry software
        and destroys it!
      </p>

      <p>
        Awareness is nothing but bringing our focus to exactly what is happening
        in and around us. It is witnessing. Anything that we watch with
        awareness will dissolve. That is the power of awareness, whether it is
        physical pain, mental pain, worry, or something else. When we watch with
        awareness, we stop the conflict somewhere within us. We start moving
        with the natural flow of things.
      </p>

      <p>
        When we watch worry with awareness, we focus light on exactly how worry
        is created, how it exists. Once this happens, the worry starts to
        dissolve and clarity starts happening.
      </p>

      <p>
        There is a small story about Buddha<sup
          id="awareness-the-benign-virus-ref1"
          ><a href="#awareness-the-benign-virus-1">1</a></sup
        >
        and his disciples:
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One day Buddha arrived for his usual morning discourse with his
        disciples. He had a knotted handkerchief in his hand. He showed the
        handkerchief to the disciples and asked if any of them could come up and
        untie the knot.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One disciple went up and tried to untie it. He pulled and pulled and the
        knot tightened. Another disciple went up, he looked at the knot for a
        few seconds and easily untied it.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        All he did was look at the knot and immediately he knew how the knot was
        made in the first place. So, he just reversed the whole thing and untied
        it! The knot itself taught him how to untie it.
      </p>

      <p>
        In life worries are the knots in the handkerchief. If we look at them
        with awareness, we will know how to dissolve them. We will see exactly
        how the worry was created and then know how to “untie” it. The worry
        itself will teach us how to release it.
      </p>

      <p>
        First of all, there is no need to worry. Life itself holds all the
        solutions. It is a beautiful self-sustaining mechanism. We just need to
        allow it to function in its natural way. Then we will awaken to its
        higher intelligence and drop all our worries.
      </p>

      <p>
        Not only that, when we witness, our mind slows down. Worry itself causes
        the mind to rush around in what you call anxiety. When awareness is
        brought in, the rushing slows down and things happen as they should.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        There was a student who wanted to learn martial arts. He approached a
        teacher and asked, “I wish to study martial arts. How long will it take
        me to master the art?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">The teacher replied, “Ten years.”</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The student became very sad and said, “But I want to master it faster
        and I will work very hard. Even if you want me to practice more than ten
        hours a day, I am ready to do it. If I do so, how long will it take?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">The teacher said, “Maybe twenty years.”</p>

      <p>
        The teacher clearly means that hurrying is not going to help! When you
        are in a hurry, there is only anxiety. To really do something, you need
        only awareness, nothing else. When there is awareness, there is right
        action. When there is hurry, everything is blurred.
      </p>

      <p>
        With awareness, anything becomes a blessing, including illness. Have you
        ever been joyful when you were sick? You can be if you become aware.
        There is no need to worry about sickness. Even sickness is a part of the
        flow of Existence. You can feel this if you become more aware of the
        bigger picture and what is happening at the cosmic level. Awareness
        simply relaxes you into deeper understanding.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="awareness-the-benign-virus-1">
            Buddha - Enlightened master and founder of the religion of Buddhism.
            <a href="#awareness-the-benign-virus-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
