<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Worry - a legacy passed down</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Worry - a legacy passed down</h1>

      <p>
        Worry is an unwanted legacy passed down from grandparents to parents to
        children. Children are like sponges. They simply absorb the body
        language and attitude of the parents. The parents are not even aware
        this is happening. For example, if a child hears the mother repeating a
        certain worry four or five times, the child simply internalizes the
        habit. He grows up repeating statements unnecessarily, which is one
        attribute of worry.
      </p>

      <p>
        Ultimately he carries the worry with him into marriage and then both he
        and his wife must deal with it, even though it was originally his
        mother’s concern. They will then hand it down to their children, unless
        they stop naming it and learn to live with what IS.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A man was pushing his baby in a pram. The baby was screaming at the top
        of his voice. All the while the man kept repeating quietly, “Keep calm
        George. Don’t scream. It will be okay.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">His wife told him to keep quiet.</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A woman who was watching this said to the wife, “Why are you so rude to
        him? He is really doing his best to pacify your son!”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The wife looked at her with resentment, pointed to her husband and told
        her, “He is George.”
      </p>

      <p>
        When parents express constant worry, children grow up thinking life goes
        on only because of worry! Understand that life goes on not because of
        us, but in spite of us!
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One man had just moved into a remote part of a village. One day, he was
        seen throwing handfuls of bread crumbs around his house.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        His neighbor who was watching him asked him, “What are you doing?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">The man replied, “I am keeping the tigers away.”</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The neighbor was surprised. He said, “But there are no tigers in these
        parts!”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The man replied, “That’s right. Very effective, isn’t it?”
      </p>

      <p>
        This is how we are trained to worry! The other day, I read a survey
        about worries. It said that forty percent of the things we worry about
        never happen, thirty percent are in the past and can’t be helped, twelve
        percent concern the affairs of others that are not our business, ten
        percent are about illnesses that are mostly imagined, eight percent are
        worth worrying about but they are also not worth the energy to worry.
        They can be overcome by simply putting faith into action. So really,
        zero percent of our worries are worth the effort!
      </p>

      <p>
        People will believe anything that is said with statistics! So I am
        talking with statistics. Otherwise, just one line is enough: don’t
        worry, just do. Things will happen as they should!
      </p>

      <p>
        The problem is that parents expect their children to worry! If they
        don’t worry, they brand them as uncaring. It is possible to care without
        worrying. Care is <em>doing</em>, worry is <em>chattering</em>. There is
        no use chattering. Chattering is like trying to cross a bridge before it
        comes.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A young boy was driving his mother to the neighboring village. They were
        nearing the village when they remembered a particular bridge that used
        to be very old and unusable.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The mother got very anxious and said, “I will never cross that bridge by
        car.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The son said, “Let’s see how it looks when we come to it.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The mother said, “I’m sure the bridge will break if we attempt to cross
        it.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The son replied, “Let’s see how strong it is. We won’t cross it without
        checking it carefully.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The mother said, “If something happens to you or me, your father will
        never forgive me.” She kept going on like this, becoming more and more
        upset.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Soon they reached the spot where the bridge stood. The bridge had been
        replaced with a new one!
      </p>

      <p>
        There are two things to understand: chronological planning and
        psychological worry. Chronological planning is needed to set up a
        schedule for tasks or projects to be completed. For example, you decide,
        “I will wake up at six a.m., do my meditation, then take a shower at
        seven a.m., and leave for the office by eight a.m. I’ll finish work by
        five p.m. and return home by six p.m.”
      </p>

      <p>
        This type of planning is perfectly alright. But before you come to each
        task on your list, you start creating anxiety about it. You think of the
        pros and cons of each, etc. This is called psychological worry! This is
        not needed. Chronological planning is fine, but psychological worry is
        not needed. It is like trying to cross a bridge before it comes.
      </p>

      <p>
        So much energy is spent worrying, and it is all of no use. In the story
        I just narrated, it does not mean that the son does not care. He cares
        without worry, that’s all. Why contemplate over the bridge even before
        it comes?
      </p>

      <p>
        Understand that sensitivity is different from worry. You can be very
        sensitive to the moment, but not worry at all. If you see children, they
        are highly sensitive to you when you are sick. But they won’t worry like
        you do. As long as your child is sensitive to others’ needs, it is
        perfectly fine. He doesn’t have to worry to show it. In fact, be happy
        he doesn’t multiply the worries in the house!
      </p>

      <p>
        You can clean the physical parts of your house like your carpets and
        floors, but what about the space inside your house? This space is the
        energy that circulates throughout your house. It captures all the
        thoughts you radiate. It sets the very mood of the house. Your worries
        rest like cobwebs in the space of your house. That is why when you enter
        your house, you experience a familiar pattern of worry. The patterns
        remaining in the space of your house grip you when you return to it.
        Understand that your mental setup settles into the space of your house.
      </p>

      <p>
        By contaminating the space in your house, you subject others to the
        impure environment without their consent. That is the problem. Many
        people perform rituals in their homes to cleanse the energy, but that is
        not enough. After the ritual, you again start airing your negative
        thoughts in your space. Unless you break free from the mental setup or
        worry, there is no point in doing cleansing rituals in your home. Along
        with rituals, you must start airing positive thoughts, so the energy in
        your house will remain clean.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
