<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Work out of inspiration - not out of worry</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Work out of inspiration - not out of worry</h1>

      <p>
        If you observe closely, you will see that goals always create worry in
        us. When we move toward any goal, we move only with the worry about the
        results.
      </p>

      <p>
        Krishna, an enlightened master from ancient India, beautifully says in
        the ancient Indian scripture, the Bhagavad Gita<sup
          id="work-out-of-inspiration-not-out-of-worry-ref1"
          ><a href="#work-out-of-inspiration-not-out-of-worry-1">1</a></sup
        >, “The person who does not expect gain or loss from anything works
        happily with no need even for motivation.”
      </p>

      <p>
        When you are worried about the results, the very worry affects the
        results. Because when you worry, your doing is affected. Work should
        always be done out of inspiration, never out of worry. The motivation
        for any work should be inspiration, not worry. Inspiration is an
        overflowing energy that expands your capacity to do things. It is
        completely energizing. Worry, on the other hand, is something that
        shrinks your capacity. It limits what you are capable of really doing
        because it takes away your energy.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you work out of worry, you are always bothered about the results.
        When you work out of inspiration, you are not bothered about the
        results. You are bothered only about doing the task to the fullest. Any
        task done with the energy of inspiration always turns out good results.
        Even if it doesn’t give the expected results, you won’t feel bad about
        it because you have received fulfillment simply by doing it. The “doing”
        itself will fulfill you.
      </p>

      <p>
        In today’s world, everything is measured by productivity. Even in that
        context you see right away that worry is a waste of time. It is the most
        non-productive activity.
      </p>

      <p>
        The problem is that today’s world is so highly competitive. Everyone
        feels compelled to achieve. Everyone wants to be first. Everyone is
        worried that they might be last. Tell me, so what if you are last?
        Someone has to be last! You should worry only if you did not give it
        your best. If you gave your best, then there is nothing to feel bad
        about. In fact, if you can feel neutral about being last, you have
        achieved a much bigger thing than finishing in the first place. It is
        not a sign of failure, it is a sign of success at a different level.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="work-out-of-inspiration-not-out-of-worry-1">
            Bhagavad Gita - Ancient Indian scripture, delivered by enlightened
            master Krishna, and considered the essence of the
            <em>Upanishads</em> or scriptures.
            <a href="#work-out-of-inspiration-not-out-of-worry-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
