<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>How does Worry take root?</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>How does Worry take root?</h1>

      <p>
        Worry takes root from your own thoughts or words. There are two things
        that continuously happen in you. The first is dialogue, and the second
        is monologue or what I call “inner chatter”. You either talk to people
        outside or you continuously chatter within you. In any case, words and
        thoughts are the “building blocks” that make up worry.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you speak to others, what you say is strictly governed by societal
        rules. You automatically don’t use prohibited or “politically incorrect”
        words. But what you say inside yourself, no one except you knows. The
        thoughts that you generate inside constitute your real worries.
      </p>

      <p>
        Khalil Gibran<sup id="how-does-worry-take-root-ref1"
          ><a href="#how-does-worry-take-root-1">1</a></sup
        >, a Lebanese poet, beautifully says, “You talk when you cease to be at
        peace with your thoughts!” and “Our very verbalization is because we are
        not able to handle ourselves peacefully within us.”
      </p>

      <p>
        It is like this: there is a continuous current of chatter happening in
        you twenty four hours a day, seven days a week. From this current a few
        spikes rise. These spikes are what you feel and express as worries.
        Worries are nothing but spikes in the current of thoughts constantly
        moving within you.
      </p>

      <p>
        These thoughts are mostly negative. That’s the problem. If I ask you to
        write your life story in a few pages, you will write a few incidents
        highlighting how and when you struggled. You will not highlight the many
        joyful incidents that happened in between. The mind is trained to record
        only negative things. Even when something joyful happens, you remember
        only the moment when it ended, never the moments when you felt joy.
        Because even when you are at the peak of joy, you are always worrying
        about when the joy will end! The mind is trained from a very young age
        to think that life moves from one worry to the other or from one pain to
        another, never from one joy to another.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        In a classroom, the teacher found that one boy was sitting with a very
        sad face.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        She asked him, “What happened? Why do you look so worried?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The boy said, “It’s my parents. My dad works all day to provide good
        clothes and an excellent education for me. He buys me anything I want.
        My mother cooks the best food for me and takes care of me from morning
        until I go to bed.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The teacher asked, “Then what is your problem? Why are you worried?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">The boy replied, “I am afraid they may run away.”</p>

      <p>
        The mind has a clear identity only with pain, never with joy! That is
        why recalling even joyful moments becomes painful.
      </p>

      <p>
        Joy never gets recorded as thoughts, but pain does. That’s why our
        internal recordings are always negative thoughts. Joy is like a blank
        recording! For example, if your entire life is like a time shaft, on
        that shaft the joyful moments are simply empty spaces! There won’t be
        any recording corresponding to it. But the moments of worry and
        suffering will be clearly recorded as black impressions.
      </p>

      <p>
        On a beautiful white wall if there is a small black dot, and I ask you
        what you are able to see, what will you say? You will say you only see
        the black dot. You will not see the big white space surrounding it! That
        is how you conclude that your time shaft is only made up of worry and
        suffering.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="how-does-worry-take-root-1">
            Khalil Gibran - Lebanese American poet best known for his “The
            Prophet”.
            <a href="#how-does-worry-take-root-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
