<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Worry is only an illusion</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Worry is only an illusion</h1>

      <p>
        If you look into worries, you will observe that they arise out of deep
        ignorance of the truth that Existence is running the whole show. If you
        look, you will see that all worries are mere illusion. You can
        understand this by observing what happens at the time of death. When you
        are alive, you may have one hundred worries, but suppose you are dying.
        At that moment, how many worries do you think will dominate you the way
        they did earlier? Surely only one worry will be foremost — that you are
        going to die. None of the earlier worries will exert any great
        influence. All the outer world situations remain the same, but still the
        worries disappear! Only loving thoughts remain for the people around you
        who are dear to you
      </p>

      <p>
        How is this possible? It is possible only because your worries were
        never a part of you in the first place. They were merely a part of your
        mind. They were nothing solid. If they were solid, they would definitely
        exert some amount of influence over you at the time of your death as
        well.
      </p>

      <p>
        The nature of worry is such that it always goes behind something that is
        not present. If you have wealth, it will go after relationships. If you
        have relationships, it will go after education. If you have education it
        will go after good looks. If everything is present, it will suspect what
        IS!
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One man was slipping in and out of a coma for several months and yet his
        wife faithfully stayed by his bedside, day and night.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One night he opened his eyes and started talking to her. He told her in
        a soft voice, “I was just thinking… you have been with me through all
        the bad the bad times. When I got fired, you were there to support me.
        When my business failed, you were there. When we lost the house, you
        gave me support. When my health started failing, you were still by my
        side. You know what I think?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">The wife asked, “What do you think?”</p>

      <p class="p-story">The man replied, “I think you’re bad luck.”</p>

      <p>
        Worry is always trained to see the black spot on the white wall! That is
        the problem. Not only that, even our seemingly solid worries can easily
        be proven to be illusory
      </p>

      <p>Let me tell you another small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A disciple went to the master and said, “Master, I am very keen to
        renounce the world. However, I am very worried about what will happen to
        my family. They will not be able to take it.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The master listened to him and said, “Alright, I will teach you a yogic
        secret that you can use to cause death.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The disciple agreed and he went through the process and died. His family
        members started crying and shouting.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The master walked in and saw the scene. He told them, “I know the way to
        bring him back to life, but one of you has to be willing to die in his
        place. Which of you would like to volunteer?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The disciple was shocked to see that not one of them volunteered,
        including the man’s wife. They all simply gave some reason why they
        couldn’t volunteer
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Finally they said, “It’s ok. We will manage without him.”
      </p>

      <p>
        In reality if we track our worries, we will not be able to find any
        truth in them! That is the truth
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
