<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Drop Worry, pick up health</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Drop Worry, pick up health</h1>

      <p>
        When you create more thoughts inside you through worry, the load on the
        navel region increases. It is from the navel region that thoughts or
        worries arise. When you create more and more thoughts, you feel the
        heaviness in your stomach. There is an energy center in the navel area
        called the manipuraka chakra* . This energy center starts shrinking with
        the heaviness of worry. This energy center responds directly to worry,
        and affects the stomach. That is why when you worry about something,
        your stomach starts becoming uneasy. Or when you hear shocking news you
        say, “I can’t digest it…” Any disturbing news causes your stomach to
        churn. The stomach is very sensitive to thoughts.
      </p>

      <p>
        You may have observed that those who are very ambitious, and who are
        perfectionists, will end up with ulcers. Too much perfectionism leads to
        stomach troubles and ulcers. Such people worry too much. Ulcers are due
        to continuously suffering with worries.
      </p>

      <p>
        When worry becomes a habit, it causes many psychosomatic diseases and
        even cancer. It doesn’t affect only certain parts of the body. Worry can
        affect any part of the body. Psychosomatic diseases don’t have any
        carrier. They happen purely due to the way the mind and body of a person
        interact. That is why worry needs to be addressed and removed from the
        system.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        There was a doctor famous for his extraordinary and effective treatment
        of arthritis. He always had a waiting room full of people.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One day an old lady with her back badly bent entered the office, with
        the aid of a stick. When her turn came, she went into the doctor’s room
        and amazingly, came out within five minutes, walking completely erect
        with her head high.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A woman in the waiting room ran to her and said, “It’s a miracle! You
        walked in bent and now you are walking erect! What did that doctor do?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">The old lady replied, “He gave me a longer cane.”</p>

      <p>
        Sometimes we are so used to living in a certain way that we can’t see a
        better way to live. Worry is that habit that keeps us from living to our
        full potential and invites disease into the body. Disease starts in the
        mind.
      </p>

      <p>
        There are extreme forms of worry that may become habitual and slow down
        the functioning of the individual. This form of worry is diagnosed as
        Generalized Anxiety Disorder, called GAD. It is much more than the
        normal anxiety people experience day to day. According to research done
        by the National Institute of Mental Health in the USA, GAD affects about
        6.8 million adult Americans and about twice as many women as men
      </p>

      <p>
        Understanding brings the energy of insight into the flow of time, the
        laws of the universe, and cause and effect of the many things that
        happen in the universe. Out of this arises a deep peaceful acceptance
        and reverence for the universe and its ways. Once this understanding
        happens, you remain cheerful, come what may. You enter into life with
        laughter and bliss. A blissful person’s life is so rich that there is no
        space or time for worry.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
