<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>How meditation helps</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>How meditation helps</h1>

      <p>
        Once worry happens, we visit psychiatrists. The cause of worry is in the
        mind, not outside. Then how will medicine alone help?
      </p>

      <p>
        A large number of people in the world visit psychiatrists for the
        treatment of worry. Medication is all right, but for psychosomatic
        conditions like worry, meditation is also needed.
      </p>

      <p>
        In places such as war-torn Iran, research groups have studied the
        <em>Transcendental Meditation-Sidhi</em> program designed by Maharishi
        Mahesh Yogi<sup id="how-meditation-helps-ref1"
          ><a href="#how-meditation-helps-1">1</a></sup
        >, a 20th century teacher from India. When meditators did the TM Sidhi
        program in high conflict area, the crime rates, violence, and anxiety
        all reduced and the quality of life around them improved dramatically!
      </p>

      <p>
        Meditation softens you. When you soften, love and gratitude start
        happening in you. Then slowly, there is no room for worry. Worry is also
        a form of violence. It is a subtle form of violence. It is a disguised
        agitation in the system.
      </p>

      <p>
        Meditation also tremendously increases awareness. When awareness
        increases, outwardly you might be completely involved in the outer
        world, but inwardly you will be untouched by anything that happens. That
        is the real worry-free life.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="how-meditation-helps-1">
            Maharishi Mahesh Yogi - Indian spiritual teacher and promoter of
            Transcendental Meditation TM.
            <a href="#how-meditation-helps-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
