<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Leave no space for Worry to fill</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Leave no space for Worry to fill</h1>

      <p>
        When you live without expectation, you are already fulfilled. There is
        no space for worry or discontent to thrive. When you don’t have worry,
        you see things as they are. You don’t worry about what might be or might
        not be. Worry exists only if you give it space. The space for worry is
        the past or future. The present doesn’t hold any space for it.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you allow the mind to wander to the past or future, worry gets
        created. It includes what is and what is not, based on past experiences
        and future expectations. For example, if your friend loses his job, you
        worry about what might happen to your job. Why worry about that now? You
        already have a hundred other worries about your job. Then why add the
        hundred and first worry, about losing the job, when it has not even
        happened? That is the space in which we should never allow worry to
        reside.
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A mother was preparing a meal for her young son. She emptied a tin of
        beans into a saucepan and put them on the stove to cook. Just then the
        phone rang. She was expecting the call and wanted to take it, but she
        was concerned that her son would be left alone for those few minutes
        while she was out of the room.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        She firmly told him, “Stay here while I answer the phone. I’ll be back
        soon. Don’t misbehave, and whatever you do, don’t put those beans up
        your nose...”
      </p>

      <p>
        We always worry about what is happening and what might happen, also! The
        boy might not have even thought about putting beans up his nose! Now his
        mother has planted the idea in him. Worry infuses life into many things
        that never existed in the first place. Now, when the boy puts the beans
        in his nose, her worry turns out to be true! She concludes that her
        worries were always right.
      </p>

      <p>
        George MacDonald, a Scottish author and poet says, “It is when
        tomorrow’s burden is added to the burden of today that the weight is
        more than a man can bear.”
      </p>

      <p>
        If you find yourself overloaded, at least remember this, it is your own
        doing, not god’s. He begs you to leave the future to Him, and concern
        yourself only with the present.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you take care of this moment alone, you enjoy the moment. You
        create a blissful future, because every moment takes birth only from the
        previous moment. When you are in the moment, you don’t think, you only
        do. It is only when you think that you start creating worries. Worry
        needs space to think and time to move. Space is your mind and time is
        the idea that you have of the future and past.
      </p>

      <p>
        Understand one thing, only those who are weak worry a lot. They feel so
        helpless that they hold tightly onto worry as their hope. Worry can
        never be hope. Worry is only like a hammock. It goes back and forth;
        nothing comes out of it.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you stop worrying, you make correct decisions. There are some
        people who come to me asking me to make decisions for them. They see
        outside circumstances as the cause of their troubles. They use these
        influences as their reason for poor decision-making and see me as an
        influence in making any new decisions correctly. Sometimes they blame
        their parents for not educating them properly, for the lack of correct
        exposure, etc. Your parents did what they felt was right. Feel grateful
        to them for what they did. They might not have educated you in the right
        way, but they may have given you many other virtues that made you a good
        human being. So see the whole and move on. You only have the present
        under your control, so why waste time living in the past?
      </p>

      <p>
        In the same way, the future is completely open. Anything can happen in
        the future. You can make the best happen. It is in your hands. It is
        only when you think of the past and worry about the future that you make
        the future a replication of the past. Otherwise the future is completely
        open. Just through your worry, you end up making the same mistakes in
        the future also.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
