<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Surrender and relax</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Surrender and relax</h1>

      <p>
        When you clearly understand that you are part of the grand plan of
        Existence, no worry can take root in you. Existence is a live energy
        being. It has tremendous intelligence with which it runs the whole show.
        We are all part of it. The same intelligence that conducts Existence is
        available to us too. If we tune in to it, our actions will be fluid and
        spontaneous like the happenings of Existence. If we don’t tune into it,
        we will harbor worry and fear and remain closed.
      </p>

      <p>
        There is so much to learn from Existence! Take animals, for example.
        Have you ever heard of worried sheep or cows? No! They conduct their
        lives like you. They are born, they reproduce, they find food, and they
        face death, just like human beings. You may say, “They don’t have to
        face the challenges that we have to face.” What about their other
        activities like reproduction, facing death, etc.? Are they worried about
        all that? No! But these things happen to them too. So understand that
        face death, just like human beings. You may say, “They don’t have to
        face the challenges that we have to face.” What about their other
        activities like reproduction, facing death, etc.? Are they worried about
        all that? No! But these things happen to them too. So understand that
        Existence is running this whole macrocosm. It can surely take care of
        you as well!
      </p>

      <p>
        Surrendering to the laws of Existence is the greatest relaxation from
        worry. Once you surrender, you start seeing that everything that happens
        is auspicious! Nothing causes you any worry. You find blessings in
        everything. Either there is surrender or worry, never both. Once you
        surrender, you see that Existence plans even the small things
        beautifully, only we don’t see it.
      </p>

      <p>
        The Isavasya Upanishad<sup id="surrender-and-relax-ref1"
          ><a href="#surrender-and-relax-1">1</a></sup
        >
        , an ancient vedic<sup id="surrender-and-relax-ref2"
          ><a href="#surrender-and-relax-2">2</a></sup
        >
        text, says, “The one who sees all living entities as spiritual sparks,
        can never have anxiety on any account!”
      </p>

      <p>Everything that happens is a spark of Existence. That is the truth.</p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Once a rich man met a Zen<sup id="surrender-and-relax-ref3"
          ><a href="#surrender-and-relax-3">3</a></sup
        >
        master. He asked the master to write down something that would encourage
        something that would encourage happiness and prosperity in his family
        for years to come. He wanted something that the family could cherish.
        that the family could cherish.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The Zen<sup id="surrender-and-relax-ref3-dup"
          ><a href="#surrender-and-relax-3">3</a></sup
        >
        master took a large sheet of paper and wrote, “Father dies, son dies,
        and grandson dies.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        When the man saw the master’s writings, he became very angry. He said,
        “I asked you to write something that would bring prosperity and
        happiness to my family, but you have written such things! Why?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The master answered, “If your son dies before you, it would bring
        unbearable grief and sadness to your family. If your grandson dies
        before your son, that would also bring great sorrow. If your family dies
        generations after generations in the order I have described, it will be
        true happiness and prosperity.”
      </p>

      <p>
        Whenever your mind suffers with worry, immediately be aware that
        somewhere you are interpreting the ways of Existence with your own
        ignorant mental setup. You will then stop worrying and start doing.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="surrender-and-relax-1">
            Isavasya Upanishad - One of the major and oldest vedic scriptures
            <a href="#surrender-and-relax-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="surrender-and-relax-2">
            <em>Vedic</em> - Referring to Veda
            <a href="#surrender-and-relax-ref2">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="surrender-and-relax-3">
            Zen - Japanese Buddhist practice. Derived from <em>dhyana</em>,
            meditation.
            <a href="#surrender-and-relax-ref3">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
