<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Stop Worrying about your wealth</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Stop Worrying about your wealth</h1>

      <p>
        An eternal worry for people is the worry about money. Even your money
        problems get sorted out if you get up and get into right action. There
        is a famous saying, “If you can’t find a solution, you are the problem.”
      </p>

      <p>
        If making money is the worry, then it clearly means that somewhere
        laziness is pulling you back into the comfort of worry. If you discard
        laziness and move, you make money. There are a million opportunities in
        today’s world to make money
      </p>

      <p>
        If sustaining the money is a worry, then again you should either take
        steps to reduce spending or be in the ultimate surrender to Existence,
        knowing it will sustain you. The worry of sustaining money might not be
        a great problem in your life after all. So relax and just remain with
        the right action.
      </p>

      <p>
        Krishna says in the Bhagavad Gita<sup
          id="stop-worrying-about-your-wealth-ref1"
          ><a href="#stop-worrying-about-your-wealth-1">1</a></sup
        >, “A person whose mind is contended because of spiritual knowledge, who
        has subdued his senses and to whom stone and gold are the same and who
        is satisfied with what he has, is said to be established in
        Self-realization and is called an enlightened being.”
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="stop-worrying-about-your-wealth-1">
            Bhagavad Gita - Ancient Indian scripture, delivered by enlightened
            master Krishna, and considered the essence of the
            <em>Upanishads</em> or scriptures.
            <a href="#stop-worrying-about-your-wealth-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
