<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>The ego in disguise</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>The ego in disguise</h1>

      <p>
        If you seriously analyze every worry that arises in you, you will see
        that ninety nine percent of your worries are baseless. But the problem
        is that the ego is not willing to accept that. The ego has invested too
        much in worry. Worry can’t be discarded just like that! Just try telling
        someone that his or her worries are not worth anything. They will get
        very offended. You would expect that a person would feel happy if you
        tell him his worries are not true. But it won’t be so! He will feel
        offended. The ego feels offended whenever its worries are not
        acknowledged with due respect.
      </p>

      <p>
        Chaitanya Mahaprabhu<sup id="the-ego-in-disguise-ref1"
          ><a href="#the-ego-in-disguise-1">1</a></sup
        >
        says beautifully, “When a living entity forgets the constitutional
        nature of his relationship with god, he is at once overwhelmed with
        external energy. This is the cause of his false ego, his identification
        with his body-mind system!” the constitutional nature of his
        relationship with god, he is at once overwhelmed with external energy.
        This is the cause of his false ego, his identification with his
        body-mind system!”
      </p>

      <p>
        Ego comes into play only when you lose your connection with Existence.
        The ego is what sustains the worry. The worry is created out of
        ignorance, but sustained by ego. Worry becomes an axis around which the
        ego revolves. If worry is taken away, the ego suffers. The worry of work
        and the worry of responsibility are classic examples of this.
      </p>

      <p>
        Understand that the idea of hard work itself is a myth. Hard work is
        really just worry plus a little work, that’s all. Real hard work never
        causes worry. It simply rises and falls like a wave, with great dynamism
        and intensity. It will never dilute itself with worry.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        An eight year old girl was very intelligent and somehow sensed that her
        mother would like a gift. She decided to buy her mother a birthday gift.
        The mother was very happy. She thought, “At least my daughter
        appreciates my efforts. No one else does.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The girl gave her mother the gift and told her, “This is for you because
        you work so hard and no one appreciates it.” The mother replied, “But
        dear, your father also works hard. Don’t forget that.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The girl said, “Yes, but he doesn’t make a fuss about it.”
      </p>

      <p>
        The fuss is the worry. If you watch some people, they simply magnify
        their situation to prove that they have the greatest worries on planet
        earth! If you try to contradict them, they feel very hurt.
      </p>

      <p>
        Even worrying about what others will say about us is a problem of the
        ego. The ego is constantly worried that its self-image might be spoiled
        by someone. It is because of the ego that we feel we want to be somebody
        special all the time. We spend considerable time just worrying about our
        self-image. Understand that the greatest blessing is being a nobody and
        yet being blissful. That is the greatest specialty. It is said that the
        most extraordinary thing about an enlightened being is that he thinks he
        is ordinary! So, understand that enlightenment itself is a journey to
        relax into yourself. You are someone special all the time, only when you
        drop worry and ego.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="the-ego-in-disguise-1">
            Chaitanya Mahaprabhu - A mystic from Bengal, India steeped in
            devotion to Krishna. His followers are known as Gaudiya Vaishnavas.
            <a href="#the-ego-in-disguise-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
