<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Mind is a process</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Mind is a process</h1>

      <p>
        You need to understand this one truth: you are a process, and that by
        your very nature, your thoughts are unconnected, independent and
        unclutched.
      </p>

      <p>
        Understand, by very nature, what you think as your identity is not
        required for you to run your life. You may say, “No, if I am unclutched,
        unconnected, how will I plan for my future, how will I think of
        tomorrow? I have deadlines, project plans, so many things. How will I
        work? How will I submit my projects? How will I run my day-to-day life?”
        These are big questions that haunt you.
      </p>

      <p>
        Understand this one example: when you are driving, do you plan every
        step? Do you plan how much you need to press the accelerator, when you
        need to press the brake, when you need to turn right, turn left? No. In
        the initial level when you are getting trained, you may plan but once
        you learn driving, you just sit. Many times you don’t even remember what
        happened while driving. Am I right? You don’t even remember you drove
        down to your office all the way. Only when you park your car in front of
        your office, suddenly you realize that you have been driving all this
        time and even reached your destination!
      </p>

      <p>
        This is what we call prarabdha<sup id="mind-is-a-process-ref1"
          ><a href="#mind-is-a-process-1">1</a></sup
        >, bio memory. You have an automatic intelligence to run, to maintain,
        to live and to expand your life. What I am saying is a very basic truth.
        Only if you have suffered enough in your life with your mind, you will
        understand what I am saying. Only if you come to the verge of suspecting
        your own identity, you can understand.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="mind-is-a-process-1">
            <em>Prarabdha</em> - Mindset and desires that we bring into this
            world when we are born.
            <a href="#mind-is-a-process-1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
