<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Inner chatter</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Inner chatter</h1>

      <p>
        In our normal state we are constantly in chatter. Even if we do not talk
        out loud to another person, as many stressed people in fact do, we talk
        silently within. Not only is our mind not at rest, but the thoughts it
        generates also take shape as a monologue or dialogue within us.
      </p>

      <p>
        This inner chatter is what we call worry. Worry is nothing but the
        constantly repetitive inner negative chatter. Again and again we refer
        to the past and project it to the future by connecting all the negative
        things that have happened to us in the past. We then visualize the same
        thing happening in the future.
      </p>

      <p>
        Left to themselves ninety percent of your worries will never
        materialize. I have shown this to people who have attended our courses.
        I tell them to write down their worries and review them six months
        later. All of them tell me that almost all of their worries never really
        happened. The ten percent that did happen was good for them!
      </p>

      <p>
        Your strong visualization actually invites these worries to become true!
        If a worry constantly nags you, bring in the understanding that the
        worry itself is a creation of your mind. The mind itself is unreal. The
        connection that it makes with your thoughts is unreal. Therefore, the
        worry is also unreal! You can replace negative words with positive words
        and negative thoughts with positive thoughts. It is that easy. These
        words have power.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
