<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>What is Stress?</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>What is Stress?</h1>

      <p>
        Worry and stress are closely interrelated. They are like parent and
        child. One cannot exist without the other. What works for one works for
        the other as well. However, given that stress is considered the biggest
        destroyer of health in today’s world, it is worth going into more depth
        on this subject.
      </p>

      <p>
        Four hundred years ago Rene Descartes<sup id="what-is-stress-ref1"
          ><a href="#what-is-stress-1">1</a></sup
        >
        declared, “I think, therefore I exist.” This has formed the basis of
        modern thinking. Billions of people in this world have followed
        Descartes for generations believing that unless each one outthinks the
        other they cannot succeed in this world.
      </p>

      <p>
        Descartes was right, and he was wrong. He was right in that that the
        human system does not know how to live without its mind, without
        thinking. As a result human beings become slaves to their minds. They
        live in bondage.
      </p>

      <p>
        Many centuries before Descartes, a vedic<sup id="what-is-stress-ref2"
          ><a href="#what-is-stress-2">2</a></sup
        >
        sage declared that man does not begin to exist till he stops thinking.
        Adi Shankara<sup id="what-is-stress-ref3"
          ><a href="#what-is-stress-3">3</a></sup
        >, at the age of eight, faced his future master across the waters of the
        holy Tungabhadra river. The master asked him, “Who are you?”
      </p>

      <p>
        In response Adi Shankara* said, “I am not the mind, I am not the
        intellect, I am not the ego and I am not the senses. I am beyond all
        that. I am pure consciousness.”
      </p>

      <p>
        We are merely a bio-machine as long as we think we are mind and body. We
        are just a shade better than the animals we ascended from as long as we
        allow our senses to guide us. But the true potential of human beings is
        not merely to think and prove that we are superior to animals. The
        purpose of human life is to transcend the mind and ascend to a higher
        state of consciousness. In that state we are truly in the divinity that
        we descended from.
      </p>

      <p>
        Till we reach that state of unity with what we truly are, we are in
        turmoil. This turmoil, this confusion between our true nature and what
        we pretend and strive to be is what we call stress or tension.
      </p>
      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="what-is-stress-1">
            Rene Descartes - French philosopher scientist famous for his saying
            “I think, therefore I am.”
            <a href="#what-is-stress-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="what-is-stress-2">
            <em>Vedic</em> - Referring to Veda or ancient scriptures
            <a href="#what-is-stress-ref2">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="what-is-stress-3">
            Adi Shankara - Enlightened master from India. Greatest exponent of
            the doctrine of Advaita Vedanta or nondualism, whose movement
            restored glory to the declining vedic tradition and Hinduism during
            his period.
            <a href="#what-is-stress-ref3">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
