<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Physiological effects of Stress</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Physiological effects of Stress</h1>

      <p>
        We have looked at what the scriptures say and what I think about why
        stress is created. Let us now look at what science says.
      </p>

      <p>
        We all have a part of our brain that controls our actions such as
        breathing, digestion and such activities that the body does
        automatically, involuntarily. Nature has designed a fail-safe system in
        a part of our brain called hypothalamus. This part of the brain also
        includes what biologists refer to as the reptilian brain.
      </p>

      <p>
        Behavioral scientists often talk about the fight or flight response.
        When the body-mind system perceives a danger to our survival the
        hypothalamus is alerted by our unconscious mind. The unconscious mind
        functions at speeds a million times faster than the conscious mind. So
        even before we consciously become aware of danger, we instinctively
        become alert. The hypothalamus activates the pituitary gland, the master
        gland, which then activates the adrenalin glands that secrete the
        adrenalin hormone, which is pumped into our extremities, the hands and
        legs. We then get ready for the “fight or flight” reaction - either the
        energy prepares us to fight the threat or to run away from the threat.
      </p>

      <p>
        The unconscious reptilian brain takes the decision to release chemicals
        into our body to protect us. This worked very well in the days of the
        caveman when he faced lions and tigers. He had to be ready even without
        thinking to fight or run away.
      </p>

      <p>
        To study the effect of adrenalin on human beings today, experiments were
        carried out on athletes. Sprinters were lined up at the starting block
        and moments before the pistol was raised to signal to them to start
        running, the umpire lowered his arm. So, the sprinters had to fall back
        and reposition themselves. This was repeated six times. Without even
        running a meter the sprinters collapsed at the starting block! The
        adrenalin level in their bodies had become dangerously high. The life
        saving adrenalin can become a killer when it is produced without reason.
      </p>

      <p>
        The chances of our meeting a tiger or a lion are quite slim these days.
        Nevertheless our unconscious mind keeps sending signals of such danger.
        I call them “fear strokes”. Psychologists estimate that we face at least
        half a dozen such fear strokes every day. These fear strokes produce
        large quantities of adrenalin in us. It has been established that
        depression is a direct result of such adrenalin production. Depression
        in turn is considered to be the main cause of many chronic and fatal
        illnesses.
      </p>

      <p>
        Medical research has found that many young people in rich countries,
        even teenagers, have arteries so badly blocked that their arteries are
        similar to sixty-year- old people! Doctors have established that the
        physical condition is only one part of the problem. A much larger part
        is the emotional condition. It is now fairly well established that an
        emotional trigger causes the immediate onset of a heart attack or
        stroke, even though the physical condition may have been present for a
        long time.
      </p>

      <p>
        Nowadays, cardiac physicians routinely request people to fill in a
        questionnaire on stress factors in addition to conventional tests to
        determine how prone they are to cardiac problems.
      </p>

      <p>
        Doctors have found that major traumas in life such as death of a loved
        one, loss of job, loss of money and even transfers in job and moving
        houses can be serious stress factors that can lead to heart attacks.
      </p>

      <p>
        What is true of heart attacks is true of many non-life threatening but
        highly debilitating ailments such as backaches, migraines and ulcers.
        The underlying emotional or psychological factor is far more relevant
        than the superficial physiological causes.
      </p>

      <p>Stress is a killer, but it is in the mind.</p>

      <p>
        We create fear strokes through worry. We create them through
        conditioning. You can correct the situation temporarily through
        medicines. Unless the underlying cause is removed, no medicine can be
        effective in permanently curing the ailment.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
