<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Mind is also an illusion</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Mind is also an illusion</h1>

      <p>
        The doors of entry to our mind are our sense organs. Without the eyes,
        ears, nose, tongue and skin we will not be able to give any input to our
        mind. The sensory inputs are the foods that the mind thrives on.
      </p>

      <p>
        We assume that all that we see and hear are authentic. We believe that
        the sights we see and the dialogues we hear are the way that things
        happened. A little reflection will show how untrue it is. How many times
        have you interpreted a scene to be very different from what it really
        was based on your own conditioning? For instance, the moment you see a
        man and woman in close proximity interacting emotionally with one
        another, perhaps hugging, you immediately jump to the conclusion that
        they are lovers! They could be friends, brother and sister, father and
        daughter or mother and son.
      </p>

      <p>
        It is the conditioning that we carry in us that drives us to
        interpretations of what we perceive through our senses. That is why I
        say that we first decide on the judgment and then collect the evidence
        to support the judgment we have already made. We have made the judgment
        already. All we need is a few bits of data to support that conviction,
        that’s all.
      </p>

      <p>
        It is as if our mind is a projector. We have a number of slides we have
        gathered along the path of our life, some even from our past births.
        These slides are the projections with which we live our lives. Each time
        the slide is repeated it gets more powerful. The first few times it may
        have to be shown for several minutes for it to impact us. As the
        <em>samskara</em
        ><sup id="mind-is-also-an-illusion-ref1"
          ><a href="#mind-is-also-an-illusion-1">1</a></sup
        >
        gets engraved deeper into our mind, all that is needed over time is
        having a quick glimpse and our mood changes and we decide based on that
        <em>samskara</em
        ><sup id="mind-is-also-an-illusion-ref2"
          ><a href="#mind-is-also-an-illusion-1">1</a></sup
        >.
      </p>

      <p>
        Molecular biology experiments have revealed a startling truth that each
        time we experience a powerful emotion, like anger for instance, new
        cellular transmitters and receptors for anger get activated in our
        body-mind system, not merely in the brain but everywhere in the body.
        The first few times the emotion happens in the system, it may be a brief
        drizzle. Once more and more cellular structures get built for this
        emotion, the drizzle turns into a shower, then into a storm and finally
        into a tsunami!
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A man was stopped by a policeman on the highway for speeding. When the
        policeman questioned the man, he angrily replied that he was not
        speeding.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The policeman said he noted his speed at seventy miles per hour when the
        speed limit was fifty miles per hour. The man screamed that the
        policeman was lying. Now the policeman reached out for his pistol.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Just then, the man’s wife leaned over and rolled down the window,
        “Officer, don’t argue with my husband when he has been drinking, he can
        become dangerous!”
      </p>

      <p>
        All these incidents of road rage and other acts of passion and violence
        do not happen at one particular instant. The conditioning gets deeper
        and stronger at the cellular level. It is like cancer. Just like the
        malignant cells grow and kill, scientists have now discovered that
        emotional receptors multiply allowing emotions to flood us with no
        control from our part. In simple terms these emotions take over our
        behavior. To think that we control our mind and we decide what we do is
        the biggest illusion we carry in our lives! This is the <em>maya</em
        ><sup id="mind-is-also-an-illusion-ref2-dup"
          ><a href="#mind-is-also-an-illusion-2">2</a></sup
        >
        that drives us.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="mind-is-also-an-illusion-1">
            <em>Samskara</em> - Engrams or deeply engraved memories.
            <a href="#mind-is-also-an-illusion-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="mind-is-also-an-illusion-2">
            <em>Maya</em> - Literally “That which is not”. It is the concept
            that life is but a dream, however real it may seem while being
            experienced.
            <a href="#mind-is-also-an-illusion-ref2">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
