<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Transcend time - be in the present</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Transcend time - be in the present</h1>

      <p>
        If you observe your thoughts carefully, you will understand two things.
        One is what we talked about earlier about thoughts being unconnected.
        All you need to do is to sit down and write down the thoughts that arise
        in your mind for ten minutes. You will realize that there is very little
        connection between your thoughts. They seem to jump from one to another.
      </p>

      <p>
        The second point you will notice is your thoughts are always about your
        past or your future. You can only think about what happened in the past
        or what will happen in the future. Your thoughts of the past are usually
        regrets about what you did not do or guilt about what you did. Thoughts
        of the future are about what you wish to do.
      </p>

      <p>
        Please understand, neither the past nor the future is real. The past is
        dead and gone. Most often we do not even learn from the past. All we try
        to do is use our past to steer the future. It is like driving a car
        looking only at the rear view mirror! You know for sure where you will
        end up!
      </p>

      <p>
        The future is even more unreal. It has not happened. You have very
        little control over your future the way you are, because all your
        actions are steered by the unconscious mind. You are driven by the
        embedded memories of your past. Your thoughts are nothing but the
        movement of your mind between past and future. Your mind never wants to
        rest. If it rested you would know you could do without it!
      </p>

      <p>
        If only you allowed the mind to rest or even persuaded your mind to
        rest, you will find that you reach a blissful state. That state is the
        present moment. All your future has to happen in this present moment. It
        is what you decide now in this present moment that makes your future.
        Once you take care of the present moment, once you live this present
        moment consciously, you no longer will have cause to regret your past or
        feel guilty about it.
      </p>

      <p>
        You are oscillating at a high frequency most of the time. You are always
        excited, even when you think you are resting. This is why Buddha calls
        it the “monkey mind”. As the thought frequency or thoughts per second or
        TPS comes down, you naturally rest into the present moment.
      </p>

      <p>
        In the diagram, the shaft in the center represents “time”. At any given
        time, the greater your TPS or Thoughts Per Second, the more far-flung
        you are from consciousness of the present moment. You are simply
        worrying about the future thus allowing it to slip into the past,
        without ever getting a glimpse of the present.
      </p>

      <p>
        When your TPS comes down, you enter more and more into the present and
        when this happens, you have a clearer vision of the past and the future.
        You may wonder what is there to be clear about the past. One can
        understand that the future may not be clear, but why the past? I have
        lived it, so why should it be unclear! You need to understand that what
        you now remember of present. the past is your judgment of the past, not
        the way it happened. How many times do we talk about the golden past?
        How much has been written about the “golden past”! There is nothing
        golden about the past. We just choose to remember the good parts, so it
        looks golden.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you are in the intuitive state, for those few moments, your TPS has
        dropped and you are more in the present. When your TPS is zero, you can
        clearly see the entire past and future.
      </p>

      <p>
        The point where the future meets the past is the present. This is where
        your thought frequency is zero and you are in a no-mind state. You have
        not merely controlled or suppressed the mind, which is impossible. You
        have transcended the mind, which is possible.
      </p>

      <p>
        Not only can the mind not play its games on you anymore, but you also
        reach a state where you can play with the mind and make it do what you
        wish. We can choose to be in this state. This is the state of
        meditation. Meditation brings the mind to rest. Meditation disengages
        the mind so that the mind cannot play games.
      </p>

      <p>
        We can also reach this state in the master’s presence. The master is
        always in a no- mind state, which is the zero TPS state. When you are in
        his awareness, whether physically or otherwise, your own TPS also drops.
        You can reach zero TPS just by being in the master’s presence. The
        presence of the master is meditation. Awareness of the master is
        meditation.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
