<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Mind is not a machine</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Mind is not a machine</h1>

      <p>
        According to vedic<sup id="mind-is-not-a-machine-ref1"
          ><a href="#mind-is-not-a-machine-1">1</a></sup
        >
        psychology, we are not disturbed. We are indeed the source of that
        disturbance. Understand this well, you are not tensed but you are
        tension. You are not stressed but you are the source of stress. There is
        a big difference between the two. Let us look deeply into it. Then you
        will understand. You are not in tension. You are the tension. There is a
        very big difference between “you are disturbed” and “you are the
        disturbance”.
      </p>

      <p>
        A group of reputed and experienced scientists, after doing research for
        many years, have now come up to say this. They say, we cannot make man
        responsible for his actions unless we teach him how to manage his
        emotions by managing what is happening inside him.
      </p>

      <p>
        Whatever the <em>vedic</em> scriptures said five thousand years ago is
        the same thing that the modern scientists are saying now. These
        scriptures also provide the solution and answer for this age-old
        problem. They can bridge the gap between the Western psychology and the
        <em>vedic</em> psychology.
      </p>

      <p>
        Western psychology continuously gives us the hope that we can be brought
        back to normalcy, retaining I as I. For example, if we are feeling hot
        in this room, we can fix the air conditioning and make it cool to be
        comfortable. But we forget an important factor. The moment we bring air
        conditioning into this room, we need to maintain it. That brings
        additional tension. That brings additional problems. Now we need
        electricity, we need to pay the bills and for all these facilities we
        need money. When you go out to work, you no longer enjoy this room. The
        room and its air conditioning exist, but you are elsewhere working to
        pay the bills for the air conditioner!
      </p>

      <p>
        We forget an important factor. You as you are, is a disease. The concept
        of mind, according to Western psychology, is a machine. According to
        <em>vedic</em> psychology, it is a process. Mind is not a machine but a
        process. It is constantly happening. The word <em>“manas”</em>, which is
        the Sanskrit word for mind, means a constant happening, something that
        is not passive and dead but something that is dynamic and alive.
      </p>

      <p>
        Western psychology insists on this one idea that the mind is a
        biomechanical machine. We all believe unconsciously that mind is matter,
        a thing or a machine. That is why constantly we connect all the past
        happenings of the mind as a chain, and start believing our mind is a
        solid thing.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="mind-is-not-a-machine-1">
            <em>Vedic</em> - Referring to Veda or ancient scriptures
            <a href="#mind-is-not-a-machine-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
