<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Words cause Stress</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Words cause Stress</h1>

      <p>
        We do not realize how powerful our thoughts and words are. As we
        discussed earlier, various experiments like those on water by the
        Japanese scientist <em>Masaru Emoto</em
        ><sup id="words-cause-stress-ref1"
          ><a href="#words-cause-stress-1">1</a></sup
        >, show clearly that even water responds clearly to our words, thoughts
        and feelings. Over seventy percent of our body is made up of water and
        seventy percent of planet earth is covered with water. So you can
        imagine the power of words!
      </p>

      <p>
        These experiments established beyond doubt what the Eastern mystics said
        centuries ago: As are your thoughts, so is your will. As is your will,
        so is your action. As is your action, so you become.
      </p>

      <p>
        Don’t think that negative thoughts and words will only affect those
        against whom you express them. Understand clearly that these same
        thoughts and words will have an equal effect on you, the person who
        created them. Negativity does not merely affect others, it affects you
        first.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="words-cause-stress-1">
            <em>Masaru Emoto</em> - Japanese scientist and author of “The Hidden
            Messages in Water” showing the effects of one’s thoughts and words
            on water and therefore on living beings.
            <a href="#words-cause-stress-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
