<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>How do we decide?</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>How do we decide?</h1>

      <p>
        Only about ten percent of what we perceive through our senses gets
        recorded in our conscious mind. Everything else goes directly into our
        unconscious mind. This is why many times we do not even remember a place
        that we pass every day. So long as this sensory perception does not
        interest us in some way, it does not get recorded.
      </p>

      <p>
        Let us now see what happens to those sensory perceptions that do get
        recorded in our conscious mind. These impressions are sorted out by
        parts of our mind and identified. Your conscious mind records whether
        the person you see in front of you is known to you or whether he is an
        unknown stranger. How you would like to interact with him is no longer a
        decision made at the conscious level. In case you know him, your
        attitude towards him and your action would be based on the engraved
        memories that are grooved in your mind. In case he is unknown to you
        also, the appearance of that person would trigger unconscious responses.
        Either way the file moves into your unconscious for a decision about
        what you should do.
      </p>

      <p>
        For most of us, less than ten percent of the mind is conscious. Less
        than ten percent of what you perceive through your senses gets recorded
        consciously. It is possible that less than one percent of what you
        decide is a rational decision!
      </p>

      <p>
        What do we do then? Do we continue to allow our unconscious mind to
        control us or can we do something to regain conscious control?
      </p>

      <p>
        There are two ways in which we can regain control. The first is to
        reduce the conditioning that binds us. In our meditation programs, we
        work on the removal and dissolution of these <em>samskaras</em
        ><sup id="how-do-we-decide-ref1"
          ><a href="#how-do-we-decide-1">1</a></sup
        >
        that bind us. The second way is to be in the present moment, in total
        awareness and control.
      </p>

      <p>
        In our Life Bliss Programs we teach techniques for both these methods.
        In the superconscious meditative state it is possible to relive embedded
        memories so that they are relieved. This allows the inner space to be
        cleansed. One gains the skills to reach and stay in the present moment
        awareness.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="how-do-we-decide-1">
            <em>Samskara</em> - Engrams or deeply engraved memories.
            <a href="#how-do-we-decide-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
