<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Connecting the unconnected</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Connecting the unconnected</h1>

      <p>
        Let me give you an example. The low mood that you experienced ten years
        ago, the low mood that you experienced nine years ago, the low mood that
        you experienced eight years ago, the low mood that you experienced seven
        years ago and the low mood that you experienced yesterday are completely
        unconnected and independent incidents. All these happened for different
        purposes, different reasons, at different times and situations. You
        connect all these unconnected incidents and say, “My life itself is a
        depression.”
      </p>

      <p>
        The low mood that you experienced years ago, months ago, weeks ago or
        days ago are all unconnected and independent incidents. Fifteen years
        ago, you would have felt the low mood and felt depressed because your
        toys were lost. Nine years ago, you would have felt depressed because
        your girlfriend was lost. Few years ago you would have felt depressed or
        disturbed because your son was not listening to you. The reasons were
        different, situations were different, and the causes were totally
        different. However, when you connect all these low moods and decide, “My
        life is full of depression,” you have created hell for yourself!
      </p>

      <p>
        The moment you start believing that your life is depressed, your life
        indeed becomes depression. Please understand that it is only what you
        believe to be your past that you will reproduce in the future. We all
        know that we can’t fly from our past experience. How can we believe that
        we can start flying from tomorrow onwards? No, we can’t. Whatever we
        believe to be our past, only that we will believe can be our future. So
        once we start believing that our past was filled with depression, we
        have created the unconscious faith that our future will also be
        depression.
      </p>

      <p>
        When we believe that the mind is just a thing, a bio-machine, we have
        created hell for ourselves. Fortunately for us, the mind is not a thing.
        There is hope. The truth is that mind is not a thing as we all have been
        taught, it is a process. It is not a noun but a verb.
      </p>

      <p>
        When we believe the mind is a thing, we create problems that do not
        exist.
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A man goes to a psychiatric doctor and says, “Doctor, my life is full of
        problems.” The doctor says, “Everybody’s life is a problem. Don’t worry.
        Every week we will have three sessions and you will be charged 100
        dollars.”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The man says, “Doctor, three sessions per week each at hundred dollars
        will solve your problem. What about my problem!”
      </p>

      <p>
        Understand, the moment we start believing that the mind is only a
        machine, we become helpless. No psychiatrist can help. No psychoanalyst
        can help. No other method can help, because the basic belief is wrong.
        The moment we bring a wrong belief, whatever is built on that has to go
        wrong. It cannot be the truth. We need to understand the basic truth
        that the mind is a process; we are not in tension but we are tension.
      </p>

      <h4>Identity gap</h4>

      <p>
        The identity that you project to the outer world is called ahankar<sup
          id="identity-gap-ref1"
          ><a href="#identity-gap-1">1</a></sup
        >. The identity that you believe as you internally is called mamakar<sup
          id="identity-gap-ref2"
          ><a href="#identity-gap-2">2</a></sup
        >. Again and again vedic psychology says that you are beyond these two.
        You are not just these two. According to Western psychology you are just
        these two. That is why so much of work is done to protect your identity.
        So much of attention and energy is given to hold on to your identity.
      </p>

      <p>
        The reality, the real you, is much more than these two identities. You
        are beyond these two identities.
      </p>

      <p>
        Above all, you need to understand that your mind is not a machine. It is
        not connected as you think. Because you do not experience the gap
        between two thoughts, you start believing it is connected. You go on
        repeating that you are disturbed and tensed. No. You are not disturbed.
        You are a disturbance. You need to understand the basic root where the
        problem starts, where the problem is created. The first basic root is
        you believing yourself to be a shaft or a thing. You are not a thing.
        Your idea about pleasure, your idea about pain, your idea about life,
        everything is built on that one lie, that you are a thing.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="identity-gap-1">
            <em>Ahankar</em> - The false identification of the pure inner self
            with the outer world. A form of ego that makes you project a false
            identity of you to the outer world.
            <a href="#identity-gap-1">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="identity-gap-2">
            <em>Mamakar</em> - Inner ego that constantly says that you are
            smaller than what you think you are.
            <a href="#identity-gap-2">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
