<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Beyond Stress</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Beyond Stress</h1>

      <p>
        To sum up, stress is an inevitable part of life. There can be no life
        without what we term “stress”. It is just the mind-body response to what
        happens outside of us. It is not the disturbance outside that creates
        the trouble, the stress. It is the disturbance inside that does it. That
        is why we said earlier that we are the disturbance.
      </p>

      <p>
        This is why, what causes stress in one person does not necessarily cause
        stress in another person. Someone said that the reverse of “stressed”
        reads as “desserts”! What is poison for one is nectar for another!
      </p>

      <p>
        Stress is such an important issue in the corporate world. They estimate
        that trillions of dollars are wasted because of stress. As long as
        stress affects only people no one cares. The moment it affects what they
        call the bottom line, of course something must be done about it. Talking
        about stress and offering solutions that work temporarily at best is a
        huge business.
      </p>

      <p>
        There is nothing that you can do about stress by playing with things
        outside, rather than fixing what is wrong within. How long can you run?
        From what will you run away?
      </p>

      <p>
        What you can do is to change yourself. You can make yourself
        stress-proof. It is so simple. Choose not to be affected by what happens
        outside you. This is not impractical. This is a simple truth. It is your
        conditioning that makes you get affected by what happens to you through
        events that are beyond your control. Nothing is inherently good or bad
        except what we judge them to be.
      </p>

      <p>
        Drop your judgment about yourself, people around you and situations. You
        will be free of stress. That is all it takes to be liberated from
        stress. Meditation can help you with this liberation. It helps you reach
        the restful mind state from which you can witness events around you
        without being touched by them.
      </p>

      <p>You really have nothing to lose by trying, except your stress!</p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
