<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Big Bang and black hole inside you</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Big Bang and black hole inside you</h1>

      <p>
        When there is pure desire or pure greed in you without any object in
        particular, it becomes the overflowing energy of creation, expansion, or
        <em>Big Bang</em
        ><sup id="big-bang-and-black-hole-inside-you-ref1"
          ><a href="#big-bang-and-black-hole-inside-you-1">1</a></sup
        >! For no reason, you simply explode with energy. In the same way, when
        there is pure fear in you without any object in particular, it becomes
        contraction, <em>black hole</em
        ><sup id="big-bang-and-black-hole-inside-you-ref2"
          ><a href="#big-bang-and-black-hole-inside-you-2">2</a></sup
        >
        .
      </p>

      <p>
        Fear is your nature, but don’t direct it towards any object. Having fear
        is natural. But connecting the fear to an object is societal. Pure fear
        helps in survival and it is spontaneous.
      </p>

      <p>
        Enormous energy radiating from you for no reason is pure greed. If it is
        because of an object, it becomes ordinary greed. In the same way, energy
        settling back within you for no reason is pure fear. If it is because of
        an object, it becomes ordinary fear. Unless the <em>black hole</em
        ><sup id="big-bang-and-black-hole-inside-you-ref3"
          ><a href="#big-bang-and-black-hole-inside-you-2">3</a></sup
        >
        happens, the <em>Big Bang</em
        ><sup id="big-bang-and-black-hole-inside-you-ref4"
          ><a href="#big-bang-and-black-hole-inside-you-1">4</a></sup
        >
        cannot happen. It is part of life, part of the drama, part of the game.
        Pure fear means you are relaxing into yourself, settling inside you.
        That is what we call destruction. The birth of this cosmos is the Big
        Bang*, and death is the black hole*. Birth of your being is big bang for
        you. Death of your being is black hole for you. The inhaling breath is
        pure desire. The exhaling breath is pure fear.
      </p>

      <p>
        <em>Prana</em>, the life energy that enters along with the air, goes
        into you because of the Big Bang. <em>Prana</em> leaving your system
        with the outgoing air is the black hole. When you resist or fight with
        the Big Bang or black hole, you create disturbance in your system.
      </p>

      <p>
        When fear happens, when the black hole happens, it means that you are
        turning towards peace or getting ready for the Big Bang. Whenever pure
        fear happens, you become rejuvenated with a tremendous relaxation which
        surges as courage and energy in you!
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="big-bang-and-black-hole-inside-you-1">
            <em>Big Bang</em> - Cosmological model of the universe where the
            universe is considered to have originated from a highly dense
            initial state at some time in the past, and continues to expand to
            this day.
            <a href="#big-bang-and-black-hole-inside-you-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="big-bang-and-black-hole-inside-you-2">
            <em>Black Hole</em> - A theoretical region of space in which the
            gravitational field is so powerful that nothing, not even light can
            escape from it.
            <a href="#big-bang-and-black-hole-inside-you-ref2">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
