<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>What is Fear?</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>What is Fear?</h1>

      <p>
        Fear is a deeper dimension of worry. Worry can cause ulcers. Fear on the
        other hand can even destroy life. However, unlike worry without which
        life is possible, fear seems woven into our lives. It is possible to
        face fear without fear. A person who we call courageous is not one
        without fear, but one who has learnt to face fear without fear.
      </p>

      <p>
        Fear is a form of energy inside us. That is why it cannot be destroyed.
        Energy can neither be created nor destroyed. It can only be changed from
        one form to another.
      </p>

      <p>
        Understand, your fear is directly connected to your life energy.
        Whenever you are facing a survival threat, you will see your fear rising
        and the adrenalin release happening in your body. That adrenalin release
        gives you so much energy that you can almost fly. We call it the fight
        or flight response - either you face the fear and fight, or you run
        away. There will be so much energy in your body the moment you face a
        survival threat. Whenever that threat is real, the
        <em>swadhishthana chakra</em
        ><sup id="what-is-fear-ref1"><a href="#what-is-fear-1">1</a></sup
        >, the seat of life, gets completely shaken!
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="what-is-fear-1">
            <em>Swadhishthana chakra</em> - Spleen energy center between base of
            spine and navel. Blocked by fear.
            <a href="#what-is-fear-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
