<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Fear of darkness</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Fear of darkness</h1>

      <p>
        Your fear of darkness and fear of death are actually the same - fear of
        the unknown. Connecting with the darkness will remove this fear. Your
        fear of death, the fear of disappearing, will be completely healed.
      </p>

      <p>I am reminded of a joke:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Once a little girl was asking her father, ‘Daddy, are you afraid of
        darkness?’ The father replied, ‘Of course not.’ The girl continued,
        ‘Then are you afraid of snakes?’ The father replied, ‘No, not at all.’
        The little girl was very happy that she had discovered something new.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        She said, ‘Oh! So Daddy, you are not afraid of anything other than
        Mommy!’
      </p>

      <p>
        Anyway, understand your fear of darkness is because of your ignorance,
        because you have not faced it clearly.
      </p>

      <p>
        In tantra<sup id="fear-of-darkness-ref1"
          ><a href="#fear-of-darkness-1">1</a></sup
        >, the first instruction that disciples are given to do for healing the
        inner self is to go and sit in a forest or empty space and gaze at the
        emptiness. All that the person has to do is to sit in the emptiness of
        the vast open sky, and one has to gaze at the sky the whole night. So
        many different fears and moods will come up. Whatever one has suppressed
        will come up.
      </p>

      <p>
        In Zen tradition, they have a similar practice where the person is asked
        to sit facing a wall and gaze at the wall. The mind becomes empty and
        one with the emptiness outside.
      </p>

      <p>
        One important thing to remember when you do this is that if you have
        suppressed your need for rest, that suppression that has become
        restlessness in you, and your desire to relax into silence, will also
        come up. It is like the whole system is getting cleaned. That opening up
        of your suppressed emotions is what you feel as fear. You feel, ‘No, no!
        I don’t want to look into this darkness!’ You try to avoid it.
      </p>

      <p>
        If you can just look into the darkness and the fear with awareness, you
        will live through it and get over it.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="fear-of-darkness-1">
            Tantra - Ancient <em>vedic</em> tradition of achieving enlightenment
            through spiritual techniques or practices, meditations and ritual
            worship.
            <a href="#fear-of-darkness-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
