<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Fearlessness is courage to face fear</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Fearlessness is courage to face fear</h1>

      <p>
        You cannot conquer fear. Fearlessness means intelligence to live the
        intense fear without directing it towards any object. When there is no
        object to be afraid of, the intense fear will give such an intense
        relaxation and peace.
      </p>

      <p>
        Fear is a powerful energy which gives a deep relaxation, a deep
        centeredness. The fear center is the rejuvenation center.
      </p>

      <p>
        Fearlessness is not suppressing fear. For example, when you are afraid
        to cross a dark area in the night, you start thinking of and repeating
        god’s name. Because of fear, god’s name will be topmost in your mind!
        You feel that you don’t have fear because your inner chatter is engaged
        in something else!
      </p>

      <p>
        When you engage your inner chatter in something else, you feel that you
        are out of fear. But you have only diverted your attention, you haven’t
        solved the problem completely.
      </p>

      <p>
        There is a saying, ‘When a cat drinks milk, it will close its eyes tight
        and think that the whole world has become dark, and therefore, nobody
        can see it!’ Understand, you also do the same thing when you don’t pay
        attention to the fear, and then believe that the fear has disappeared.
      </p>

      <p>
        Fearlessness does not mean non-existence of fear. It means the fear is
        there, but you have tremendous energy or courage to live with it and
        face it. Fearlessness means having the energy or the courage to live
        even with the maximum fear. It is going beyond that fear and being
        neither attached to nor detached from the fear.
      </p>

      <p>
        One more important thing you should know is fear is part of the nature
        of life.
      </p>

      <p>
        People come and ask me, ‘What should I do about my fear of the unknown?’
        I tell them, ‘Fear is a good sign, it means you are alive! There is a
        possibility of losing something, and that is why you are afraid. If you
        don’t have any possibility of loss, you will never be afraid.’
      </p>

      <p>
        You can be fearless if you are already in your grave! Then there is no
        need to be afraid of anything because you have nothing to lose! If you
        have something to lose, you will have fear. That is the nature of life
        itself.
      </p>

      <p>
        Fear does not exist when things are definite and known. Fear exists only
        when things are not definite, when they are mere possibilities and
        unknown in that sense. For example, death is a possibility. As an
        incident it is definite, but when and how it might happen is not clear.
        So there is always fear associated with it.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
