<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Fight between your potentiality and your negative approach</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Fight between your potentiality and your negative approach</h1>

      <p>
        Whenever you are afraid of losing something that you have, or you fear
        you cannot achieve something that you want to have, there is a fight
        going on between your potentiality and your negative approach to the
        future.
      </p>

      <p>
        If you are sure there is no possibility of achieving something, that you
        don’t have the potentiality, you will not have fear. If you are sure
        that you can achieve something, then also, you don’t have fear.
      </p>

      <p>
        Fear is the fight between faith and belief in oneself on one hand,
        versus the negative idea or expectation you have about your future on
        the other hand. You are literally fighting with your own positive and
        negative energies.
      </p>

      <p>
        If you are very sure you don’t have the potentiality, that you can’t
        achieve, then you won’t have fear. If you are very confident you are
        going to achieve, then also you won’t have fear. However, if there is
        something you want to achieve, but you are not sure that you can achieve
        it, then you will have fear. The fight between these two ideas, the
        dilemma is what we call fear.
      </p>

      <p>
        You see, you are not afraid that you will never become the king of the
        universe. No! You are very clear you could never become that! But you
        are afraid that you will not become successful like your brother. You
        are afraid that you will not become or achieve that which is within your
        reach.
      </p>

      <p>
        Possibility creates fear. It means fear is the root of life! Are you
        afraid that you can’t live on the planet earth for more than three
        hundred years? No, because you know for sure you could never live that
        long anyway. But you are always afraid that you may not live for more
        than seventy or eighty years, that you may have a premature death.
        Anything you are clear is impossible for you to achieve will not create
        fear in you. Anything that you think is possible and that you want
        creates fear.
      </p>

      <p>
        There are two ways to escape fear. One way is to block all possibility.
        This means you can die, then there won’t be any more fear!
      </p>

      <p>
        The second way to escape fear is to break the boundary of possibilities.
        If there is infinite possibility, if there is no boundary, if there is
        nothing that limits you, then you become fearless.
      </p>

      <p>
        Either nothing is possible, so you won’t have fear because there is
        nothing to be taken away from you. Or everything is possible, so you
        won’t have fear because you feel all-powerful.
      </p>

      <p>
        Just by having this understanding, something will click in you and so
        many fears will disappear from your being!
      </p>

      <p>
        These two possibilities are actually used as techniques by masters. When
        masters say, ‘Nothing can be done by you’, it is to create that deep
        surrender, a psychological death. You decide that there is no more
        possibility, nothing else can be done except relaxing. This is what
        Ramana Maharishi<sup
          id="fight-between-your-potentiality-and-your-negative-approach-ref1"
          ><a
            href="#fight-between-your-potentiality-and-your-negative-approach-1"
            >1</a
          ></sup
        >
        calls <em>atma sharanagati</em> or self-surrender. You can go beyond
        fear in this way also, by closing all possibilities.
      </p>

      <p>
        The second way to go beyond fear is by opening all possibilities. It is
        called <em>atma gnana</em> or self-realization.
      </p>

      <p>There is a beautiful story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One person wrote on the wall of a temple where the teachings are
        written, ‘Soham’ - ‘I am That.’ It means, ‘Everything is possible by
        me.’
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Another person came and wrote, ‘Dasoham’ - ‘Nothing can be done by me. I
        am a slave.’ Again that is also okay.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A third person came and wrote, ‘Sadasoham’ - ‘Always I am That.’
      </p>

      <p>
        You can surrender yourself when you feel nothing can be done. You can
        experience your power when you feel everything can be done. Both
        techniques can liberate you from fear.
      </p>

      <p>
        If you are in tune with the idea, ‘Nothing can be done by me,’ you are a
        bhakti yogi<sup
          id="fight-between-your-potentiality-and-your-negative-approach-ref2"
          ><a
            href="#fight-between-your-potentiality-and-your-negative-approach-2"
            >2</a
          ></sup
        >
        , you surrender. If you think, ‘Everything can be done by me,’ you are a
        gnana yogi<sup
          id="fight-between-your-potentiality-and-your-negative-approach-ref3"
          ><a
            href="#fight-between-your-potentiality-and-your-negative-approach-3"
            >3</a
          ></sup
        >
        , you explore and experience. Whether you work in this path or in that
        path, going beyond fear is possible. But you should be completely
        connected to one ideology or the other. Either you should be ready to
        work with ‘Everything is possible for me,’ or you should be ready to
        work with ‘Nothing is possible for me.’
      </p>
      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="fight-between-your-potentiality-and-your-negative-approach-1">
            Ramana Maharishi - Enlightened master, based in Tiruvannamalai in
            South India. He taught the method of Self-inquiry, asking oneself,
            ‘Who am I?’, as the path to Self-realization.
            <a
              href="#fight-between-your-potentiality-and-your-negative-approach-ref1"
              >↩</a
            >
          </li>
          <li id="fight-between-your-potentiality-and-your-negative-approach-2">
            Bhakti yogi - A person who follows the path of devotion, bhakti
            yoga, as a means to enlightenment.
            <a
              href="#fight-between-your-potentiality-and-your-negative-approach-ref2"
              >↩</a
            >
          </li>
          <li id="fight-between-your-potentiality-and-your-negative-approach-3">
            Gnana yogi - One who follows the path of knowledge for
            Self-Realization.
            <a
              href="#fight-between-your-potentiality-and-your-negative-approach-ref3"
              >↩</a
            >
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
