<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Is Stress work related?</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Is Stress work related?</h1>

      <p class="p-story">
        In an IT company the Chief Executive received an enquiry for a project.
        He sent it down for a proposal. The team that worked on such projects
        did a full review and said that they could do the job in six months at a
        cost of a million dollars.The manager in charge of the team reviewed
        this and said the team can do this in 4 months at a cost of three
        quarter million dollars.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The proposal went up to a General Manager. The General Manager called
        everyone, gave them a pep talk and said, “We should be able to do this
        for half a million dollars in three months.” Then he sent this as his
        proposal to the Chief Executive.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The Chief Executive called the client and told him that his company will
        deliver the product in two months at a cost of half a million dollars.
      </p>

      <p>
        People who work in corporations can relate with this incident. People
        who make decisions and commitments are often out of touch with ground
        reality. Once such decisions are made their egos are in play. Anything
        can be sacrificed but not the ego! A simple study of corporate history
        can show how many companies have failed because of the egos of the
        people who led them.
      </p>

      <p>
        I am told by some of my disciples in the corporate field about something
        called Level 5 Leadership. This is about those corporate leaders who put
        themselves behind the needs of the company and the people who work for
        them rather than placing their own ego needs first. Research has shown
        that the Chief Executives of companies that have been commercially
        successful consistently are hardly known to the outside world! These
        leaders are so humble, and focused inwards.
      </p>

      <p>
        In life, there are two categories of people: those who are stressed and
        those who are not. Those who are stressed are those who wish to control
        life. They like to mould life in the way they wish it to be. They are
        focused only on themselves. Those who have no stress are those who flow
        with life. They accept without complaint what life offers them. Their
        focus is about what they can do for others. You feel the stress when you
        flow against the current, not when you flow with it. You lose yourself
        when you flow with the current.
      </p>

      <p>
        You can choose to get stressed just by staying at home. It is not
        necessary to go out and work. Research shows that the highest frequency
        of divorces happens between the ages of forty and fifty. People tend to
        divorce more when children grow up and leave home. Till then children
        have been the buffers between their parents. When children leave home,
        husband and wife do not know what to say to each other. Silence creates
        stress!
      </p>

      <p>
        Stress at the workplace starts with our education system. We start
        ranking children from a very young age. When in a group three people are
        graded as heroes, the rest of the group feels useless. We are taught to
        compete from a very early age. This comparison continues into the
        workplace and converts it into a battlefield.
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A crow was sitting in a tree doing nothing all day. A rabbit passed by,
        watched the crow and became envious. The rabbit asked, “Can I also sit
        like this doing nothing?”
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The crow said, “Of course, please do if you wish to.” So the rabbit sat
        under the tree and did nothing. Some time later, a fox came by and ate
        the rabbit.
      </p>

      <p>
        The moral is: to be sitting and doing nothing, you must be sitting very,
        very high up.
      </p>

      <p>
        The so-called Human Resource programs specify that people must be
        categorized. I am told that in many corporations it is necessary to show
        that ten or fifteen percent of the people are bad performers. People are
        reduced to statistics! In order to survive people are forced to make
        others victims. This is probably why they call these offices “concrete
        jungles”!
      </p>

      <p>
        As long as people are driven by fear and greed, they cannot be inspired.
        They can be controlled and made to perform routine tasks, but they
        cannot be inspired to do the impossible. This is the dilemma today’s
        corporations face. They need people to perform, but their kit of
        motivational techniques is not enough. It contains the whip and the
        carrot, nothing more.
      </p>

      <p>
        Human beings are not satisfied merely with material things.
        Psychologists in the field of management recognize this and say that
        salaries and perquisites are dissatisfiers and not satisfiers. What they
        mean is that if people are poorly paid they are unhappy, but they do not
        become happy by being paid well. They look for something more. They look
        for recognition.
      </p>

      <p>
        Recognition is not merely about being recognized for what you do. It is
        about being recognized for who you are. People want to be accepted for
        who they are, not for what they do. When people are accepted for who
        they are, they blossom. They become creative. They become productive.
        They become happy.
      </p>

      <p>
        A well-known psychologist built a model of how human beings move up in
        their desires. This is now named after him as
        <em>Maslow’s</em
        ><sup id="is-stress-work-related-ref1"
          ><a href="#is-stress-work-related-1">1</a></sup
        >
        hierarchy of needs. At the base of this pyramid are one’s survival needs
        of food, shelter and other material essentials. People then look for
        fulfillment in the society they live in, such as building a network and
        so on. They then seek love and attention. Then they look for respect,
        name and fame. After all this they are still dissatisfied. They feel
        that there is something still missing in their lives.
      </p>

      <p>
        That something is within. <em>Maslow</em
        ><sup id="is-stress-work-related-ref2"
          ><a href="#is-stress-work-related-1">2</a></sup
        >
        called it self-actualization. This is the zone where we flow free of
        stress. This is the zone of inner realization. This is the zone where
        you know that you are one with the universal energy. Whether you work at
        home, in an office or factory, or you do not work at all, you still look
        forward to this state where you are centered.
      </p>

      <p>
        This is what we teach in our basic Life Bliss Program courses. The five
        levels of the pyramid that <em>Maslow</em
        ><sup id="is-stress-work-related-ref3"
          ><a href="#is-stress-work-related-1">3</a></sup
        >
        drew correspond to the seven levels of energy that we carry within us.
        These seven centers of energy are called <em>chakras</em
        ><sup id="is-stress-work-related-ref4"
          ><a href="#is-stress-work-related-2">4</a></sup
        >
        in the vedic system. Each <em>chakra</em
        ><sup id="is-stress-work-related-ref5"
          ><a href="#is-stress-work-related-2">5</a></sup
        >
        represents an emotional state as well as a state of desire. As we
        fulfill the needs of each <em>chakra</em
        ><sup id="is-stress-work-related-ref6"
          ><a href="#is-stress-work-related-2">6</a></sup
        >
        we move up in energy till we reach a state of fulfillment. It is a
        process many thousands of people have gone through with remarkable
        effect. We have taught these programs in many corporations worldwide. I
        call this a “Guaranteed Solution”.
      </p>

      <p>
        I referred to the Level 5 Leadership concept earlier. If this concept is
        about developing people who are more concerned about what they can do to
        help others and the world and through that process themselves, then our
        Life Bliss Programs are a simple route to developing such Level 5
        Leaders. Such leaders not only do not suffer from stress themselves, but
        they also do not induce stress in others.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="is-stress-work-related-1">
            <em>Maslow</em> - American psychologist famous for his concept of
            the five layered hierarchy of needs.
            <a href="#is-stress-work-related-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="is-stress-work-related-2">
            <em>Chakras</em> - Energy centers in the body. Literally means
            “wheel” based on the experience of mystics who perceived these
            energy centers as whirlpools of energy. There are seven major
            <em>chakras</em> along the spine: <em>muladhara</em>,
            <em>swadhishthana</em>, <em>manipuraka</em>, <em>anahata</em>,
            <em>vishuddhi</em>, <em>ajna</em> and <em>sahasrara</em>.
            <a href="#is-stress-work-related-ref4">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
