<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Meditation technique</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Meditation technique</h1>

      <p>
        This is a simple and yet a powerful technique to clear stress. We teach
        this technique in our Life Bliss Programs for unblocking the
        <em>manipuraka chakra</em
        ><sup id="excel-without-stress-meditation-technique-ref1"
          ><a href="#excel-without-stress-meditation-technique-1">1</a></sup
        >
        or navel energy center, which is the seat of stress. This technique
        should always be practised before a meal, when the stomach is empty and
        a few hours before sleep.
      </p>
      <p>
        While standing, shout, scream, rave and rant in a language that you do
        not know. If anyone is listening, it should also not make any sense to
        them. Be aggressive in letting out all your emotions and feelings that
        will start pouring out of you once you start. Cry if you so wish. Roll
        on the floor if your emotions drive you.
      </p>
      <p>
        This technique is a powerful meditation. It unblocks your unconscious
        and allows all the negativities stored inside to dissolve. Typical
        psychoanalytical sessions when patients talk to their analysts or even
        throw things around for catharsis, are still conscious processes. Only
        ten percent of your stored memories will be released. Processes such as
        hypnosis are through the unconscious and you have no control. This
        technique is a superconscious process in which you retain awareness
        while cleansing yourself.
      </p>

      <p>
        Practise this technique for twenty minutes. Then sit down and allow the
        energy to spread within you in silence for ten minutes. During this
        silence just be a witness to your thoughts. Do not suppress them or
        chase them.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="excel-without-stress-meditation-technique-1">
            <em>Manipuraka chakra</em> - Subtle energy center located near the
            navel region and associated with worry.
            <a href="#excel-without-stress-meditation-technique-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
