<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Increased possibility for enlightenment</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Increased possibility for enlightenment</h1>

      <p>People come and say to me, ‘I have too many fears. What can I do?’</p>

      <p>
        I tell them, ‘If you have too many fears, the possibility for
        enlightenment is more. So many doors are available to you!’
      </p>

      <p>
        For a person who doesn’t have too many fears, the possibility, the
        number of doors is also fewer because he leads a dull life. A person who
        leads a dull life will not have much fear. He has nothing much to lose,
        nothing much to decide. He is not taking many risks.
      </p>

      <p>
        But a living being who is doing many things and making many decisions
        will experience fear. If you are experiencing too much fear, then so
        many doors are available for your enlightenment!
      </p>

      <p>
        One more thing: only if you can open it can it be called a door. If you
        don’t know how to open it, then it is more like a wall. If you are
        experiencing too many fears in your life and if you know the right
        technique, all those fears can become doors and you can be liberated.
        Otherwise all the fears are like walls, and it is as if you are caught
        in a big prison.
      </p>

      <p>
        All you need to do is, every time you feel fear, do not disrespect
        yourself. Do not lose confidence or condemn yourself thinking, ‘What
        kind of a being am I?’ Actually people who can face their fears do not
        have so many problems. People who are afraid of their fears create more
        problems for themselves. When you brood too much about your fears, you
        start thinking you have problems.
      </p>

      <p>
        If you understand the true nature of fear, it can be considered a
        blessing. If you are courageous enough to face the fear, it can lead you
        to liberation.
      </p>

      <p>
        Sometimes, just by switching your attention to something else, you can
        come out of fear. But that is not fearlessness. Fearlessness means
        taking a quantum jump into the consciousness where you will never
        experience fear of losing anything!
      </p>

      <p>
        The fears that you have about your life, be it fear of failure, fear of
        losing your near and dear ones, fear of losing your wealth, fear of the
        unknown - every fear can be used as a door to enlightenment.
      </p>

      <p>
        Either you are filled with tension or you are filled with energy. If you
        are filled with tension, you are trying to take energy by force from the
        source within you that does not die, without knowing the technique.
      </p>

      <p>
        There is a source of energy within you that never dies, your
        <em>atman</em
        ><sup id="increased-possibility-for-enlightenment-ref1"
          ><a href="#increased-possibility-for-enlightenment-1">1</a></sup
        >
        or Self. If you try to take energy by force from this source without
        knowing the right technique, it creates tension.
      </p>

      <p>
        Whenever you try to create energy in you by remembering some desire or
        fantasy, it is like trying to kick the door in and take the energy from
        the other side. You want the energy but you don’t have the patience to
        open the door. You can use the key to patiently open the door and allow
        that bliss and energy to come into your being. That key is called
        meditation.
      </p>

      <p>Another important truth you should know:</p>

      <p>
        There is something within you that never dies which is your source of
        energy. There is also something within you that dies, something that is
        actually never alive even now. The fear of death exists in you because
        you think there is something you have now that will be taken away from
        you. No! Anything that you have now, cannot be taken away. Anything that
        can be taken away, you never had in the first place. Anything that can
        die can never occupy your inner space.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="increased-possibility-for-enlightenment-1">
            <em>Atman</em> - soul, spirit, consciousness, etc., as referring to
            the individual imperishable energy that is a holographic image of
            the Cosmic Consciousness or <em>Brahman</em>.
            <a href="#increased-possibility-for-enlightenment-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
