<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Swadhishthana chakra - seat of life and death</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>
        <span style="font-style: italic">Swadhishthana chakra</span> - seat of
        life and death
      </h1>

      <p>
        Fear is associated with the swadhishthana chakra<sup
          id="swadhishthana-chakra-ref1"
          ><a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-1">1</a></sup
        >
        , the subtle energy center two inches below the navel region.
      </p>

      <p>This is an incident from my life when I was young:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        I used to circumambulate the Arunachala<sup
          id="swadhishthana-chakra-ref2"
          ><a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-2">2</a></sup
        >
        hill every day. I would start early in the morning at around four am,
        and go around the hill, chanting and singing keertans<sup
          id="swadhishthana-chakra-ref3"
          ><a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-3">3</a></sup
        >
        .
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        One morning I started very early, soon after midnight. In those days
        there were no roads or lights on the path around the hill. It was a
        dense forest all the way. I was happily singing and walking with my eyes
        down. Suddenly, at a spot near a small river, I looked up and saw a pack
        of fierce-looking hyenas staring at me intensely ready to pounce on me!
      </p>
      <p class="p-story">
        In that sudden deep fear, I just let out a scream from the depths of my
        <em>hara</em
        ><sup id="swadhishthana-chakra-ref4"
          ><a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-4">4</a></sup
        >, the swadhishthana chakra*. It was a scream of pure fear that I had
        never experienced before. It was so complete that never again did I feel
        shaken by fear in my life!
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        I felt a total surrender to <em>Arunachala</em
        ><sup id="swadhishthana-chakra-ref5"
          ><a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-2">5</a></sup
        >
        and a deep trust that <em>Arunachala</em
        ><sup id="swadhishthana-chakra-ref6"
          ><a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-2">6</a></sup
        >
        would take care of me. Suddenly, from nowhere, an elderly
        <em>sannyasi</em
        ><sup id="swadhishthana-chakra-ref7"
          ><a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-7">7</a></sup
        >
        appeared in front of me with a big stick, and chased away the hyenas. As
        soon as the animals ran away, the old man disappeared!
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        With that primal scream, I found that my body had suddenly become much
        lighter. I was almost floating rather than walking, as if the frequency
        of my being had increased.
      </p>

      <p>
        In modern psychiatric treatment, ‘primal theory’ is applied where
        patients scream as a catharsis, from the depths of their
        <em>hara</em
        ><sup id="swadhishthana-chakra-ref8"
          ><a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-4">8</a></sup
        >, to relieve fear and other suppressed negative emotions.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="swadhishthana-chakra-1">
            <em>Swadhishthana chakra</em> - Spleen energy center, between base
            of spine and navel. Blocked by fear.
            <a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="swadhishthana-chakra-2">
            Arunachala - Literally the unmoving red mountain in Tiruvannamalai
            in Tamilnadu in South India, this mystical hill is considered a
            representation of enlightened master Shiva.
            <a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-ref2">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="swadhishthana-chakra-3">
            Keertans - Devotional songs.
            <a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-ref3">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="swadhishthana-chakra-4">
            <em>Hara</em> - Seat of the soul in Japanese tradition, corresponds
            to <em>swadhishthana chakra</em> or subtle energy center related to
            fear, situated near the belly region.
            <a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-ref4">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="swadhishthana-chakra-7">
            <em>Sannyasi</em> - One who has renounced, a monk.
            <a href="#swadhishthana-chakra-ref7">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
