<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Witnessing and acceptance</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Witnessing and acceptance</h1>

      <p>
        When you are faced with fear, don’t try to resist it or suppress it.
        Just look at the fear, note the fear and accept it. Acceptance of the
        fear dissolves the fear. Allow the fear to shake you. If your body
        trembles, let it tremble. If your eyes water, let the tears come. Just
        be like a blade of grass in the wind, bending without resistance.
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        On a dark night, a man was walking on a narrow path. Suddenly, his foot
        hit a rock and he stumbled and slipped down. He managed to catch hold of
        a branch hanging over the rock. It was completely dark. The man tightly
        held onto the branch. He shouted for help but the only response was his
        voice echoing back. Hearing the echo, the man was terrified that he
        might be at the mouth of a huge abyss.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        The night seemed endless and the man was desperately holding on, hoping
        he could get some help. Finally dawn arrived. The man looked down to see
        how deep the abyss was, but there was no abyss; just two feet down was a
        big rock!
      </p>

      <p>
        Your fears are exactly like his, you think it is an abyss but it is
        actually just a few feet. If you can face your fears, you see they have
        no depth. Because you magnify the fears, you imagine them to be an
        abyss. It is your choice – to let go of the branch and the fear, or to
        keep clinging onto it and torturing yourself.
      </p>

      <p>
        Acceptance is the only way to conquer inevitable things. When you
        accept, suddenly you see the fear disappears. The moment you accept,
        fear loses its power to frighten you. When you don’t fight with it, you
        will see fear as deep peace. When the fear stroke happens, just live it.
        That is the only way.
      </p>

      <p>
        When you have an object connected to fear, accept it. That acceptance
        transforms. The more you fight, the more you empower fear. Diverting
        your attention away from the fear is also not the way because then the
        fear still remains with you. It does not mean that you are out of fear.
      </p>

      <p>
        Allow the fear to take over itself. Go into the fear two to three times.
        Live the fear intensely without any reservations. Suddenly you will find
        that it doesn’t touch you anymore!
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
