<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Fear of death</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Fear of death</h1>

      <p>
        All our fears, be it fear of losing physical health, mental stability,
        wealth, name and fame, or loved ones, are actually fear of death under
        various disguises.
      </p>

      <p>A small story:</p>

      <p class="p-story">
        A man had prepared thoroughly to deliver a speech at a public function.
        He suddenly went blank when he stepped on stage and took the microphone
        in hand. He was gripped by stage fright! He just stood speechless in
        front of the huge crowd for a few minutes.
      </p>

      <p class="p-story">
        Then suddenly, after some time, he said, ‘The human mind is the most
        amazing thing in this world. It starts working from the moment you are
        born and never stops working until the moment you die – except when you
        have to make a speech!’
      </p>

      <p>
        The social fear or fear of being rejected by society makes us do things
        to please society, even when it is not good for us. In this process,
        many times, we sacrifice what our being really wants to do. That fear of
        not being accepted by society is just another form of the fear of death.
        It is the death of the ego.
      </p>

      <p>
        Every act of ours is unconsciously related to death and the fear of
        dying. Understanding death can change your entire perception of life. It
        can simply transform the way you handle all your fears.
        <span style="font-style: italic"
          >A detailed understanding of death is provided in the chapter on
          ‘Death’.</span
        >
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
