<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>Fear strokes</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1>Fear strokes</h1>

      <p>
        Psychologists talk about fear strokes. For example, you are walking in
        the garden in the dark, and you see a coil of rope. You start shivering,
        imagining it to be a snake.
      </p>

      <p>
        That sudden shock you get before realizing it is just a rope is a fear
        stroke. just a rope and not a snake, is what is called a fear stroke. A
        fear stroke is like shaking a rose plant from its roots. If you keep
        shaking it long enough, it will die.
      </p>

      <p>
        It is said that we undergo six to twelve fear strokes every day and
        night, both in dreams and also in wakefulness. Imagine what happens to
        our being! Fear strokes originate from unconsciousness. When they are
        viewed with awareness and consciousness, they can be substantially
        reduced.
      </p>

      <p>
        At the time of the fear stroke, you may not have any time to go into
        awareness because it is just like a spike. But after the fear stroke
        passes, you can analyze the stroke and get a deeper understanding of
        your fears. This will help you to dissolve the whole idea of fear.
      </p>

      <p>
        The intensity and frequency of fear strokes can be greatly reduced by
        reducing the intensity and depth of the basic level of fear in us. Only
        from this baseline fear, do the fear strokes arise. With deeper
        understanding and clarity, we can reduce the baseline fear, and the fear
        strokes will also reduce.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
