<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en" xml:lang="en">

<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>Anger – The active form of Fear</title>
  <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
  <section epub:type="chapter">
    <h1>Anger – The active form of Fear</h1>

    <p>
      Fear is what leads to anger. Fear is the
      passive form of the energy while anger is
      the active expression.
    </p>

    <p>
      A small story:
    </p>

    <p class="p-story">
      A man rushed into the post office very
      angrily with a bunch of papers in hand,
      saying, ‘How dare they send me
      threatening letters like this!’ The official
      at the post office said, ‘Yes, sending
      threatening letters is a legal offense. Do
      you know who has been sending you
      these letters?’
    </p>

    <p class="p-story">
      The man shouted back, ‘Of course, I
      do! It is the Income Tax people!’
    </p>

    <p>
      When you are angry, just look into the
      anger. At the root of it, you will find a deep
      fear.
    </p>

    <p>
      Try this for yourself: if you are feeling fear,
      express anger at that time. Throw your
      hands, stamp your feet and express the
      energy. You will see that the fear
      disappears. You will see for yourself how
      fear can simply transform to anger.
      Similarly, fear can also transform to hate.
      You just need to be aware of yourself and
      witness how the emotions subtly change
      from one form to another. When you
      understand this play, you can easily get out
      of the game.
    </p>
  </section>
</body>

</html>