<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  lang="en"
  xml:lang="en"
>
  <head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <title>1. Hamsa Mantra</title>
    <link href="../Styles/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>

  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <h1><em>1. Hamsa Mantra</em></h1>

      <p>
        This is a very powerful technique that can be used twenty-four hours a
        day. Whenever you are attacked by fear, just sit back and relax. Put
        your awareness only on your exhaling breath. Repeat the word ‘sah’
        silently as you exhale, that is, with the outgoing breath. Exhaling is
        like relaxing and letting go anything that can die. While inhaling you
        will be constantly trying to hold on to something. Exhaling is like
        letting go. Focus on exhaling without bothering about inhaling. When you
        inhale, repeat ‘ham’ silently.
      </p>

      <p>
        Place more awareness and energy on the exhalation. Help yourself exhale
        deeper. Let the inhalation happen automatically through the body. Place
        your energy, attention and effort only on exhaling.
      </p>

      <p>
        It is a silent intonation of ‘ham…sah…., ham…sah’. Silent intonation of
        this <em>hamsa mantra</em
        ><sup id="hamsa-mantra-ref1"><a href="#hamsa-mantra-1">1</a></sup> will
        suddenly take you into the awareness, the relaxation, that never dies.
        Whatever can die will leave your system, your inner space.
      </p>

      <p>
        This technique can also be practiced at other times when you are not
        faced by fear, while you are sitting, talking, walking, eating, even
        while you are sleeping. It is a very powerful technique. Constantly, all
        twenty four hours, place your attention on exhaling and just intone the
        hamsa mantra* silently as ‘hamsah’, ‘hamsah’, ‘hamsah’. When you inhale,
        intone ‘ham’ and when you exhale, intone ‘sah’.
      </p>

      <p>
        Understand, when constantly intoning this mantra, it will become ajapa
        japa
        <sup id="hamsa-mantra-ref2"><a href="#hamsa-mantra-2">2</a></sup> or
        chanting without effort. Chanting with effort is called japa. Chanting
        without effort is <em>ajapa</em
        ><sup id="hamsa-mantra-ref3"><a href="#hamsa-mantra-2">3</a></sup
        >. It means that which goes on automatically in you. You just need to
        intone, that’s all. Fall in tune, that’s all. The whole day it will be
        resounding within you.
      </p>

      <p>
        Whatever can die will leave your system, and you will realize that
        whatever can die can never be part of you. If you are identifying
        yourself with something that can die, that identification will be
        disconnected and you will be unclutched.
      </p>

      <p>
        Whatever can never die, you will feel connected to that. Whatever cannot
        die is your very being. You will realize you are that which can never
        die, that which we call the Truth, enlightenment, Consciousness. If the
        intonation of the
        <em>hamsa mantra</em
        ><sup id="hamsa-mantra-ref4"><a href="#hamsa-mantra-1">4</a></sup>
        becomes <em>ajapa</em
        ><sup id="hamsa-mantra-ref5"><a href="#hamsa-mantra-2">5</a></sup> in
        you, you become a <em>Paramahamsa</em
        ><sup id="hamsa-mantra-ref6"><a href="#hamsa-mantra-6">6</a></sup
        >!
      </p>

      <p>
        Try this technique for just three days. Whenever you remember, inhale
        with the silent intonation, ‘ham’. Exhale with the silent intonation,
        ‘sah’. Let your awareness be more on the exhalation. You will suddenly
        see that the fear of losing your wealth, parts of your body or your
        health, or your near and dear ones, or the fear of unknown and all the
        fears will disappear. When your awareness is on exhaling, whatever is
        occupying your inner space as a part of you that can die, will simply
        leave your inner space. You will be liberated.
      </p>

      <section class="footnotes">
        <ol>
          <li id="hamsa-mantra-1">
            <em>Hamsa Mantra</em> - A mantra of the Hindu tradition.
            <a href="#hamsa-mantra-ref1">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="hamsa-mantra-2">
            <em>Ajapa Japa</em> - Chanting a sacred chant involuntarily.
            <a href="#hamsa-mantra-ref2">↩</a>
          </li>
          <li id="hamsa-mantra-6">
            <em>Paramahamsa</em> - Supreme Swan, title bestowed on enlightened
            beings.
            <a href="#hamsa-mantra-ref6">↩</a>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </section>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
